content/sensu-go/5.0/guides/install-check-executables-with-assets.md, before:

---
title: "How to install executables using assets"
linkTitle: "Using Assets in Checks"
weight: 100
version: "5.0"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.0:
    parent: guides
---

## What are check assets?
Check assets are resources that checks can specify as dependencies. When an
agent runs a check, it will ensure that all of the check's required assets
are available to the agent during check runtime. If they aren't, the agent will
install them by consulting each of the assets' URLs.

## Why use assets?
When configuration management is unavailable, assets can help manage runtime 
dependencies such as scripts (ex: check-haproxy.sh) and tar files (ex: sensu-ruby-runtime.tar.gz)
entirely within Sensu. 

## How to create a check that depends on an asset 

### Creating an asset
In this example, we'll create an asset from a `tar` archive, and show you how to
create a new check with that asset as a dependency, as well as apply it to an
existing check. To create an asset, we'll need a name, a URL to the asset location, 
and a `SHA-512 checksum`.
{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl asset create check_website.tar.gz \
  -u http://example.com/check_website.tar.gz \
  --sha512 "$(sha512sum check_website.tar.gz | cut -f1 -d ' ')"
{{< /highlight >}}

If you're using macOS, you'll need to use `$(shasum -a 512 check_website.tar.gz | cut -f1 -d ' ')` to generate a checksum.

If you're using Windows, you'll need to use the `CertFile` utility to generate the checksum:
{{< highlight shell >}}
CertUtil -hashfile check_website.tar.gz SHA512
{{< /highlight >}}

and extract the checksum from the output manually, before adding it to the sensuctl command.


### Adding an asset to a check on creation

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl check create check_website \
  --command "check_website -a www.example.com -C 3000 -w 1500" \
  --subscriptions web \
  --interval 10 \
  --runtime-assets check_website.tar.gz 
{{< /highlight >}}

### Adding an asset to an existing check's dependencies

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl check set-runtime-assets check_website.tar.gz 
{{< /highlight >}}

This command will set a check's assets to `check_website.tar.gz`.

### Validating the check asset

Once the check is setup, it should only take a few moments for it to be
scheduled and start emitting events. When the check has been scheduled, you should 
see a log entry for that check's execution.
{{< highlight shell >}}
{"component":"agent","level":"info","msg":"scheduling check execution: check_website","time":"2018-04-06T20:46:32Z"}
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the asset is working by using `sensuctl` to list the most recent events:
{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl event list
    Entity           Check                     Output               Status   Silenced             Timestamp
 ───────────── ────────────────── ──────────────────────────────── ──────── ────────── ───────────────────────────────
  sensu-agent    check_website      CheckHttpResponseTime OK: 345      0       false    2018-04-06 20:38:34 +0000 UTC
{{< /highlight >}}

## What are handler and mutator assets?

Handler and mutator assets are much like check assets. They are resources that handlers
and mutators can specify as dependencies, and since those are executed server side, it
is the backend that ensures all of the required assets are available during runtime.

## How to create a handler that depends on an asset 

### Adding an asset to a handler on creation

[Create an asset][2] (ex.`sensu-influxdb-handler`), and create a handler (ex. `influx-db`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl handler create influx-db \
  --command "sensu-influxdb-handler --addr 'http://123.4.5.6:8086' --username 'foo' --password 'bar' --db-name 'myDB'" \
  --runtime-assets sensu-influxdb-handler
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validating the handler asset

Once the handler is setup, it must be attached to a check to handle the event output (ex. `collect-metrics`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl check set-handlers collect-metrics influx-db
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the handler has fetched/installed the asset, and executed the dependency by checking the
backend logs.

{{< highlight json >}}
{"assets":["sensu-influxdb-handler"],"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","handler":"influx-db","level":"debug","msg":"fetching assets for handler","time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","handler":"influx-db","level":"info","msg":"event pipe handler executed","output":"metric sent to influx-db","status":0,"time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}

## How to create a mutator that depends on an asset 

### Adding an asset to a mutator on creation

[Create an asset][2] (ex. `transformer`), and create a mutator (ex. `transform-metrics`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl mutator create transform-metrics \
  --command "transform --type metrics" \
  --runtime-assets transformer
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validating the mutator asset

Once the mutator is setup, it must be attached to a handler to mutate the event output (ex. `influx-db`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl handler update influx-db
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the mutator has fetched/installed the asset, and executed the dependency by checking the
backend logs.

{{< highlight json >}}
{"assets":["transformer"],"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","mutator":"transform-metrics","level":"debug","msg":"fetching assets for mutator","time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","mutator":"transform-metrics","level":"info","msg":"event pipe mutator executed","output":"metric transformed","status":0,"time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Next steps

You now know how to create an asset and add it to a check, handler, and mutator as a dependency.
For further reading, check out the [assets reference][1].

[1]: ../../reference/assets/
[2]: #creating-an-asset

Commit message:

include information about asset format (#919)

content/sensu-go/5.0/guides/install-check-executables-with-assets.md, after:

---
title: "How to install executables using assets"
linkTitle: "Installing Plugins with Assets"
weight: 100
version: "5.0"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: False
menu: 
  sensu-go-5.0:
    parent: guides
---

- [How to create a check that depends on an asset](#how-to-create-a-check-that-depends-on-an-asset)
- [How to create a handler that depends on an asset](#how-to-create-a-handler-that-depends-on-an-asset)
- [How to create a mutator that depends on an asset](#how-to-create-a-mutator-that-depends-on-an-asset)
- [Next steps](#next-steps)

## What are assets?
Assets are executables that checks, handlers, and mutators can specify as dependencies.
When an agent runs a check or when a backend runs a handler or mutator, it ensures that all of the required assets
are available during runtime.
If they aren't, Sensu installs them by consulting each of the assets' URLs.

## Why use assets?
When configuration management is unavailable, assets can help manage runtime 
dependencies such as scripts (ex: check-haproxy.sh) and tar files (ex: sensu-ruby-runtime.tar.gz)
entirely within Sensu. 

## How to create a check that depends on an asset 

### Creating an asset
In this example, we'll create an asset from a tar archive, and show you how to
create a new check with that asset as a dependency, as well as apply it to an
existing check.

Sensu expects that an asset is a tar archive that may optionally be gzipped.
Any scripts or executables should be within a bin/ folder within the archive.
For more information about the expected format of assets, see the [assets reference][1].

To create an asset, we'll need a name, a URL to the asset location,
and a `SHA-512 checksum`.

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl asset create check_website.tar.gz \
  -u http://example.com/check_website.tar.gz \
  --sha512 "$(sha512sum check_website.tar.gz | cut -f1 -d ' ')"
{{< /highlight >}}

If you're using macOS, you'll need to use `$(shasum -a 512 check_website.tar.gz | cut -f1 -d ' ')` to generate a checksum.

If you're using Windows, you'll need to use the `CertFile` utility to generate the checksum:
{{< highlight shell >}}
CertUtil -hashfile check_website.tar.gz SHA512
{{< /highlight >}}

and extract the checksum from the output manually, before adding it to the sensuctl command.


### Adding an asset to a check on creation

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl check create check_website \
  --command "check_website -a www.example.com -C 3000 -w 1500" \
  --subscriptions web \
  --interval 10 \
  --runtime-assets check_website.tar.gz 
{{< /highlight >}}

### Adding an asset to an existing check's dependencies

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl check set-runtime-assets check_website.tar.gz 
{{< /highlight >}}

This command will set a check's assets to `check_website.tar.gz`.

### Validating the check asset

Once the check is setup, it should only take a few moments for it to be
scheduled and start emitting events. When the check has been scheduled, you should 
see a log entry for that check's execution.
{{< highlight shell >}}
{"component":"agent","level":"info","msg":"scheduling check execution: check_website","time":"2018-04-06T20:46:32Z"}
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the asset is working by using `sensuctl` to list the most recent events:
{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl event list
    Entity           Check                     Output               Status   Silenced             Timestamp
 ───────────── ────────────────── ──────────────────────────────── ──────── ────────── ───────────────────────────────
  sensu-agent    check_website      CheckHttpResponseTime OK: 345      0       false    2018-04-06 20:38:34 +0000 UTC
{{< /highlight >}}

## How to create a handler that depends on an asset 

### Adding an asset to a handler on creation

[Create an asset][2] (ex.`sensu-influxdb-handler`), and create a handler (ex. `influx-db`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl handler create influx-db \
  --command "sensu-influxdb-handler --addr 'http://123.4.5.6:8086' --username 'foo' --password 'bar' --db-name 'myDB'" \
  --runtime-assets sensu-influxdb-handler
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validating the handler asset

Once the handler is setup, it must be attached to a check to handle the event output (ex. `collect-metrics`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl check set-handlers collect-metrics influx-db
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the handler has fetched/installed the asset, and executed the dependency by checking the
backend logs.

{{< highlight json >}}
{"assets":["sensu-influxdb-handler"],"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","handler":"influx-db","level":"debug","msg":"fetching assets for handler","time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","handler":"influx-db","level":"info","msg":"event pipe handler executed","output":"metric sent to influx-db","status":0,"time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}

## How to create a mutator that depends on an asset 

### Adding an asset to a mutator on creation

[Create an asset][2] (ex. `transformer`), and create a mutator (ex. `transform-metrics`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl mutator create transform-metrics \
  --command "transform --type metrics" \
  --runtime-assets transformer
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validating the mutator asset

Once the mutator is setup, it must be attached to a handler to mutate the event output (ex. `influx-db`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ sensuctl handler update influx-db
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the mutator has fetched/installed the asset, and executed the dependency by checking the
backend logs.

{{< highlight json >}}
{"assets":["transformer"],"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","mutator":"transform-metrics","level":"debug","msg":"fetching assets for mutator","time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< highlight json >}}
{"component":"pipelined","namespace":"default","mutator":"transform-metrics","level":"info","msg":"event pipe mutator executed","output":"metric transformed","status":0,"time":"2018-10-16T13:17:33-07:00"}
{{< /highlight >}}

## Next steps

You now know how to create an asset and add it to a check, handler, and mutator as a dependency.
For further reading, check out the [assets reference][1].

[1]: ../../reference/assets/
[2]: #creating-an-asset
