content/sensu-go/5.0/guides/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
description: "Need to troubleshoot Sensu Go? Here’s how to look into errors, including service logging and the log levels you need to know about. Logs produced by Sensu services – i.e., sensu-backend and sensu-agent – are often the best source of truth when troubleshooting issues, so we recommend you start there."
weight: 2000
version: "5.0"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-go-5.0:
    parent: guides
---

## Service logging

Logs produced by Sensu services -- i.e. sensu-backend and sensu-agent -- are
often the best place to start when troubleshooting a variety of issues.

### Log levels

Each log message is associated with a log level, indicative of the relative severity of the event being
logged:

| Log Level          | Description |
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| panic              | 😰 An error caused the service to exit uncleanly           |
| fatal              | 👋 An error caused the service to exit cleanly (status 0)  |
| error              | ❗❗ You should definitely look into this                  |
| warn               | ❗❓ Maybe you should look into this?                       |
| info               | 👌 Just so you know                                         |
| debug              | 📈 Verbose output describing lower-level service operations |

These log levels can be configured by specifying the desired log level as the
value of `log-level` in the service configuration file (e.g. `agent.yml` or
`backend.yml` configuration files), or as an argument to the `--log-level`
command line flag:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-agent start --log-level debug
{{< /highlight >}}

Changes to log level via configuration file or command line arguments require
restarting the service. For guidance on restarting a service, please
consult the Operating section of the [agent][agent-ref] or
[backend][backend-ref] reference, respectively.

### Log file locations

Sensu services print [structured log messages][structured] to standard output.
In order to capture these log messages to disk or another logging facility, Sensu services
make use of capabilities provided by the underlying operating service's service
management. For example, logs are sent to the journald when systemd is the service manager,
whereas log messages are redirected to `/var/log/sensu` when running under sysv
init schemes.

In the table below, the common targets for logging and example commands for
following those logs are described. The name of the desired service, e.g.
`backend` or `agent` may be substituted for `${service}` variable.

| Platform     | Version           | Target | Command to follow log |
|--------------|-------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| RHEL/Centos  | >= 7       | journald     | {{< highlight shell >}}journalctl --unit sensu-${service} --follow{{< /highlight >}}   |
| RHEL/Centos  | <= 6       | log file     | {{< highlight shell >}}tail --follow /var/log/sensu/sensu-${service}{{< /highlight >}} |
| Ubuntu       | >= 15.04   | journald     | {{< highlight shell >}}journalctl --unit sensu-${service} --follow{{< /highlight >}}   |
| Ubuntu       | <= 14.10   | log file     | {{< highlight shell >}}tail --follow /var/log/sensu/sensu-${service}{{< /highlight >}} |
| Debian       | >= 8       | journald     | {{< highlight shell >}}journalctl --unit sensu-${service} --follow{{< /highlight >}}   |
| Debian       | <= 7       | log file     | {{< highlight shell >}}tail --follow /var/log/sensu/sensu-${service}{{< /highlight >}} |
| Windows      | Any        | log file     | {{< highlight powershell >}}Get-Content -  Path "C:\scripts\test.txt" -Wait{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: Platform versions described above are for reference only and do not
supercede the documented [supported platforms][platforms]._

### Log messages

#### Permission issues

Files and folders within `/var/cache/sensu/` and `/var/lib/sensu/` need to be owned by the sensu user and group. You will see a logged error similar to the following if there is a permission issue with either the sensu-backend or the sensu-agent:

{{< highlight shell >}}
{"component":"agent","error":"open /var/cache/sensu/sensu-agent/assets.db: permission denied","level":"fatal","msg":"error executing sensu-agent","time":"2019-02-21T22:01:04Z"}
{"component":"backend","level":"fatal","msg":"error starting etcd: mkdir /var/lib/sensu: permission denied","time":"2019-03-05T20:24:01Z"}
{{< /highlight >}}

You can use a recursive `chown` to resolve permission issues with the sensu-backend:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo chown -R sensu:sensu /var/cache/sensu/sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

or the sensu-agent:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo chown -R sensu:sensu /var/cache/sensu/sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}

[structured]: https://dzone.com/articles/what-is-structured-logging
[journalctl]: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-journalctl-to-view-and-manipulate-systemd-logs
[platforms]: ../../getting-started/platforms
[agent-ref]: ../../reference/agent/#restarting-the-service
[backend-ref]: ../../reference/backend/#restarting-the-service

Commit message:

Add sensu logging to /var/log/sensu/ on systemd based systems. (#1355)
* systemd log files initial

* remove from guide menu

* add journald restart

* Add link from ts doc

* title and wording updates

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/systemd-logs.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/systemd-logs.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/systemd-logs.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/systemd-logs.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/troubleshooting.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/systemd-logs.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* take it easy on the styling

* Update content/sensu-go/5.5/guides/systemd-logs.md

Co-Authored-By: rgeniesse <richard.geniesse@gmail.com>

* copy guide to all versions

* copy to all versions

content/sensu-go/5.0/guides/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
description: "Need to troubleshoot Sensu Go? Here’s how to look into errors, including service logging and the log levels you need to know about. Logs produced by Sensu services – i.e., sensu-backend and sensu-agent – are often the best source of truth when troubleshooting issues, so we recommend you start there."
weight: 2000
version: "5.0"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-go-5.0:
    parent: guides
---

## Service logging

Logs produced by Sensu services -- i.e. sensu-backend and sensu-agent -- are
often the best place to start when troubleshooting a variety of issues.

### Log levels

Each log message is associated with a log level, indicative of the relative severity of the event being
logged:

| Log Level          | Description |
|--------------------|------------------------------------------------------------|
| panic              | 😰 An error caused the service to exit uncleanly           |
| fatal              | 👋 An error caused the service to exit cleanly (status 0)  |
| error              | ❗❗ You should definitely look into this                  |
| warn               | ❗❓ Maybe you should look into this?                       |
| info               | 👌 Just so you know                                         |
| debug              | 📈 Verbose output describing lower-level service operations |

These log levels can be configured by specifying the desired log level as the
value of `log-level` in the service configuration file (e.g. `agent.yml` or
`backend.yml` configuration files), or as an argument to the `--log-level`
command line flag:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-agent start --log-level debug
{{< /highlight >}}

Changes to log level via configuration file or command line arguments require
restarting the service. For guidance on restarting a service, please
consult the Operating section of the [agent][agent-ref] or
[backend][backend-ref] reference, respectively.

### Log file locations

Sensu services print [structured log messages][structured] to standard output.
In order to capture these log messages to disk or another logging facility, Sensu services
make use of capabilities provided by the underlying operating system's service
management. For example, logs are sent to the journald when systemd is the service manager,
whereas log messages are redirected to `/var/log/sensu` when running under sysv
init schemes. If you are running systemd as your service manager and would rather have logs written to `/var/log/sensu/`, see the guide to [forwarding logs from journald to syslog][journald-syslog].

In the table below, the common targets for logging and example commands for
following those logs are described. The name of the desired service, e.g.
`backend` or `agent` may be substituted for `${service}` variable.

| Platform     | Version           | Target | Command to follow log |
|--------------|-------------------|--------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| RHEL/Centos  | >= 7       | journald     | {{< highlight shell >}}journalctl --unit sensu-${service} --follow{{< /highlight >}}   |
| RHEL/Centos  | <= 6       | log file     | {{< highlight shell >}}tail --follow /var/log/sensu/sensu-${service}{{< /highlight >}} |
| Ubuntu       | >= 15.04   | journald     | {{< highlight shell >}}journalctl --unit sensu-${service} --follow{{< /highlight >}}   |
| Ubuntu       | <= 14.10   | log file     | {{< highlight shell >}}tail --follow /var/log/sensu/sensu-${service}{{< /highlight >}} |
| Debian       | >= 8       | journald     | {{< highlight shell >}}journalctl --unit sensu-${service} --follow{{< /highlight >}}   |
| Debian       | <= 7       | log file     | {{< highlight shell >}}tail --follow /var/log/sensu/sensu-${service}{{< /highlight >}} |
| Windows      | Any        | log file     | {{< highlight powershell >}}Get-Content -  Path "C:\scripts\test.txt" -Wait{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: Platform versions described above are for reference only and do not
supercede the documented [supported platforms][platforms]._

### Log messages

#### Permission issues

Files and folders within `/var/cache/sensu/` and `/var/lib/sensu/` need to be owned by the sensu user and group. You will see a logged error similar to the following if there is a permission issue with either the sensu-backend or the sensu-agent:

{{< highlight shell >}}
{"component":"agent","error":"open /var/cache/sensu/sensu-agent/assets.db: permission denied","level":"fatal","msg":"error executing sensu-agent","time":"2019-02-21T22:01:04Z"}
{"component":"backend","level":"fatal","msg":"error starting etcd: mkdir /var/lib/sensu: permission denied","time":"2019-03-05T20:24:01Z"}
{{< /highlight >}}

You can use a recursive `chown` to resolve permission issues with the sensu-backend:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo chown -R sensu:sensu /var/cache/sensu/sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

or the sensu-agent:

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo chown -R sensu:sensu /var/cache/sensu/sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}

[structured]: https://dzone.com/articles/what-is-structured-logging
[journalctl]: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-journalctl-to-view-and-manipulate-systemd-logs
[platforms]: ../../getting-started/platforms
[agent-ref]: ../../reference/agent/#restarting-the-service
[backend-ref]: ../../reference/backend/#restarting-the-service
[journald-syslog]: ../systemd-logs
