content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/audit-logging.md, before:

---
title: "Audit Logging"
product: "Sensu Enterprise Dashboard"
version: "2.11"
weight: 5
menu:
  sensu-enterprise-dashboard-2.11:
    parent: rbac
---

As of Sensu Enterprise Dashboard version 1.3, Audit Logging is enabled by
default. Audit Logging captures user events in the dashboard such as user
login/logout, and any user "write" actions in the dashboard (i.e. silencing
checks, deleting clients, deleting stashes). Optionally, it is also possible to
log all `HTTP GET` requests (i.e. every view requested by the user, and every
search query performed by the user).

_NOTE: Audit Logging requires authentication to be enabled._

### Example configuration

{{< highlight shell >}}
"audit": {
  "logfile": "/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log",
  "level": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Audit Logging attributes

logfile      | 
-------------|------
description  | The location of the audit logging logfile.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | `/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"logfile": "/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log"{{< /highlight >}}

level          | 
---------------|------
description    | The audit logging level.
required       | false
type           | String
default        | `default`
allowed values | `default`, `verbose`, `disabled` _NOTE: `default` log level events are user login/logout, and any user "write" actions in the dashboard (i.e. silencing checks, deleting clients, deleting stashes). The `verbose` log level includes all of the `default` log level events, plus all `HTTP GET` requests (i.e. every view requested by the user, and every search query performed by the user)._
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"level": "verbose"{{< /highlight >}}

Commit message:

Fix broken links, clean up frontmatter (#518)
* add product frontmatter

* add description frontmatter

* spacing

* typos

* fix links

* typo

* remove special handling for uchiwa in product dropdown

* fix/remove mac links

* use linkTitle to shorten sidebar label

content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/audit-logging.md, after:

---
title: "Audit Logging"
product: "Sensu Enterprise Dashboard"
version: "2.11"
description: Audit Logging captures user events in the Sensu Enterprise dashboard."
weight: 5
menu:
  sensu-enterprise-dashboard-2.11:
    parent: rbac
---

As of Sensu Enterprise Dashboard version 1.3, Audit Logging is enabled by
default. Audit Logging captures user events in the dashboard such as user
login/logout, and any user "write" actions in the dashboard (i.e. silencing
checks, deleting clients, deleting stashes). Optionally, it is also possible to
log all `HTTP GET` requests (i.e. every view requested by the user, and every
search query performed by the user).

_NOTE: Audit Logging requires authentication to be enabled._

### Example configuration

{{< highlight shell >}}
"audit": {
  "logfile": "/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log",
  "level": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Audit Logging attributes

logfile      | 
-------------|------
description  | The location of the audit logging logfile.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | `/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"logfile": "/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log"{{< /highlight >}}

level          | 
---------------|------
description    | The audit logging level.
required       | false
type           | String
default        | `default`
allowed values | `default`, `verbose`, `disabled` _NOTE: `default` log level events are user login/logout, and any user "write" actions in the dashboard (i.e. silencing checks, deleting clients, deleting stashes). The `verbose` log level includes all of the `default` log level events, plus all `HTTP GET` requests (i.e. every view requested by the user, and every search query performed by the user)._
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"level": "verbose"{{< /highlight >}}
