content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/configuration.md, before:

---
title: "Configuration"
product: "Sensu Enterprise Dashboard"
version: "2.11"
weight: 2
menu: "sensu-enterprise-dashboard-2.11"
---

## Dashboard configuration

### Example dashboard configuration

The following is the bare minimum that should be included in your Sensu
Enterprise Dashboard configuration.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "sensu": [
    {
      "name": "sensu-server-1",
      "host": "api1.example.com",
      "port": 4567
    }
  ],
  "dashboard": {
    "host": "0.0.0.0",
    "port": 3000
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: the Sensu Enterprise Dashboard requires two configuration scopes: `sensu`
and `dashboard` (see [Dashboard definition specification][8], below)._

### Dashboard definition specification {#dashboard-configuration-attributes}

The Sensu Enterprise dashboard uses two [configuration scopes][9]: the
`{ "sensu": {} }` configuration scope provides connection details for one or
more Sensu API endpoints (i.e. [datacenters][1], and the `{ "dashboard": {} }`
configuration scope is used to configure the behavior of the dashboard itself.

_NOTE: by default, the Sensu Enterprise Dashboard will load configuration from
`/etc/sensu/dashboard.json` and/or from JSON configuration files located in
`/etc/sensu/dashboard.d/**.json`, with the same configuration merging behavior
as described [here][2]._

#### `sensu` attributes {#sensu-attributes}

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The name of the Sensu API (used elsewhere as the `datacenter` name).
required     | false
type         | String
default      | randomly generated
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "us-west-1"{{< /highlight >}}

host         | 
-------------|------
description  | The hostname or IP address of the Sensu API.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"host": "127.0.0.1"{{< /highlight >}}

port         | 
-------------|------
description  | The port of the Sensu API.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 4567
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"port": 4567{{< /highlight >}}

ssl          | 
-------------|------
description  | Determines whether or not to use the HTTPS protocol.
required     | false
type         | Boolean
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ssl": true{{< /highlight >}}

insecure     | 
-------------|------
description  | Determines whether or not to accept an insecure SSL certificate.
required     | false
type         | Boolean
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"insecure": true{{< /highlight >}}

path         | 
-------------|------
description  | The path of the Sensu API. Leave empty unless your Sensu API is not mounted to `/`.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"path": "/my_api"{{< /highlight >}}

timeout      | 
-------------|------
description  | The timeout for the Sensu API, in seconds.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 5
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"timeout": 15{{< /highlight >}}

user         | 
-------------|------
description  | The username of the Sensu API. Leave empty for no authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"user": "my_sensu_api_username"{{< /highlight >}}

pass         | 
-------------|------
description  | The password of the Sensu API. Leave empty for no authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"pass": "my_sensu_api_password"{{< /highlight >}}

#### `dashboard` attributes {#dashboard-attributes}

host         | 
-------------|------
description  | The hostname or IP address on which Sensu Enterprise Dashboard will listen on.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | "0.0.0.0"
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"host": "1.2.3.4"{{< /highlight >}}

port         | 
-------------|------
description  | The port on which Sensu Enterprise Dashboard and Console API will listen on.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 3000
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"port": 3000{{< /highlight >}}

refresh      | 
-------------|------
description  | Determines the interval to poll the Sensu APIs, in seconds.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 5
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"refresh": 5{{< /highlight >}}

ssl          | 
-------------|------
description  | A hash of SSL configuration for native SSL support.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ssl": {
  "certfile": "/path/to/dashboard.pem",
  "keyfile": "/path/to/dashboard.key",
  "ciphersuite": [
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256",
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305",
      "TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305",
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA",
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA",
      "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256",
      "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA",
      "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA"
      ],
  "tlsminversion": "tls10"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

user         | 
-------------|------
description  | A username to enable simple authentication and restrict access to the dashboard. Leave blank along with `pass` to disable simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | "user": "admin"

pass         | 
-------------|------
description  | A password to enable simple authentication and restrict access to the dashboard. Leave blank along with `user` to disable simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"pass": "secret"{{< /highlight >}}

auth         | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`auth` definition scope][11], used to configure JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication signatures.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"auth": {
  "privatekey": "/path/to/console.rsa",
  "publickey": "/path/to/console.rsa.pub"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

audit        | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`audit` definition scope][12], used to configure [Audit Logging][7] for the Sensu Enterprise Dashboard.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"audit": {
  "logfile": "/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log",
  "level": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

github       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`github` definition scope][14], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for GitHub driver][5]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"github": {
  "clientId": "a8e43af034e7f2608780",
  "clientSecret": "b63968394be6ed2edb61c93847ee792f31bf6216",
  "server": "https://github.com",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/devs"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/owners"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

gitlab       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`gitlab` definition scope][15], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for GitLab driver][6]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"gitlab": {
  "clientId": "a8e43af034e7f2608780",
  "clientSecret": "b63968394be6ed2edb61c93847ee792f31bf6216",
  "server": "https://github.com",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/devs"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/owners"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

ldap         | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`ldap` configuration scope][13], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for LDAP driver][4]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ldap": {
  "server": "localhost",
  "port": 389,
  "basedn": "cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
  "binduser": "cn=binder,cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
  "bindpass": "secret",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "guests_group"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "operators_group"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ],
  "insecure": false,
  "security": "none",
  "userattribute": "sAMAccountName"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

oidc         | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`oidc` definition scope][18], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for OpenID Connect (OIDC) driver][17]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"oidc": {
  "clientId": "a8e43af034e7f2608780",
  "clientSecret": "b63968394be6ed2edb61c93847ee792f31bf6216",
  "insecure": false,
  "server": "https://localhost:9031",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/devs"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/owners"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### `auth` attributes

_NOTE: By default, temporary keys are generated when the Sensu Enterprise
Dashboard starts. These keys are later destroyed once the process is stopped or
restarted. These keys are used for generating and validating the signatures of
the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication. Specifying static keys is
supported and is necessary when using Sensu Enterprise Console behind a load
balancer. Static keys can be configured by using the `auth` attributes detailed
below._

privatekey   | 
-------------|------
description  | Path to a private RSA key used for generating and validating the signatures of the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"auth": {
  "privatekey": "/path/to/console.rsa"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

public       | 
-------------|------
description  | Path to a public RSA key used for generating and validating the signatures of the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"auth": {
  "publickey": "/path/to/console.rsa.pub"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### `audit` attributes

Please see the [Sensu Enterprise Dashboard Audit Logging reference
documentation][7] for information on how to configure the dashboard for audit
logging purposes.

#### `github` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for GitHub reference documentation][5] for information on
how to configure the dashboard for RBAC with GitHub.com or GitHub Enterprise.

#### `gitlab` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for GitLab reference documentation][6] for information on
how to configure the dashboard for RBAC with GitLab.

#### `ldap` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for LDAP reference documentation][4] for information on how
to configure the dashboard for RBAC with LDAP.

#### `oidc` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for OIDC reference documentation][4] for information on how
to configure the dashboard for RBAC with OpenID Connect (OIDC).

[1]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/dashboard/#what-is-a-sensu-datacenter
[2]: /sensu-core/1.2/reference/configuration/#configuration-merging
[3]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/overview
[4]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-ldap
[5]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-github
[6]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-gitlab
[7]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/audit-logging
[8]:  #dashboard-definition-specification
[9]:  #configuration-scopes
[10]: #configuration-merging
[11]: #auth-attributes
[12]: #audit-attributes
[13]: #ldap-attributes
[14]: #github-attributes
[15]: #gitlab-attributes
[16]: /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/overview/#rbac-for-the-sensu-enterprise-console-api
[17]: /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-oidc
[18]: #oidc-attributes

Commit message:

Fix broken links, clean up frontmatter (#518)
* add product frontmatter

* add description frontmatter

* spacing

* typos

* fix links

* typo

* remove special handling for uchiwa in product dropdown

* fix/remove mac links

* use linkTitle to shorten sidebar label

content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/configuration.md, after:

---
title: "Configuration"
product: "Sensu Enterprise Dashboard"
version: "2.11"
description: "The Sensu Enterprise dashboard uses two configuration scopes to provide connection details for one or more Sensu API endpoints and to configure the behavior of the dashboard itself."
weight: 2
menu: "sensu-enterprise-dashboard-2.11"
---

## Dashboard configuration

### Example dashboard configuration

The following is the bare minimum that should be included in your Sensu
Enterprise Dashboard configuration.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "sensu": [
    {
      "name": "sensu-server-1",
      "host": "api1.example.com",
      "port": 4567
    }
  ],
  "dashboard": {
    "host": "0.0.0.0",
    "port": 3000
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: the Sensu Enterprise Dashboard requires two configuration scopes: `sensu`
and `dashboard` (see [Dashboard definition specification][8], below)._

### Dashboard definition specification {#dashboard-configuration-attributes}

The Sensu Enterprise dashboard uses two [configuration scopes][9]: the
`{ "sensu": {} }` configuration scope provides connection details for one or
more Sensu API endpoints (i.e. [datacenters][1], and the `{ "dashboard": {} }`
configuration scope is used to configure the behavior of the dashboard itself.

_NOTE: by default, the Sensu Enterprise Dashboard will load configuration from
`/etc/sensu/dashboard.json` and/or from JSON configuration files located in
`/etc/sensu/dashboard.d/**.json`, with the same configuration merging behavior
as described [here][2]._

#### `sensu` attributes {#sensu-attributes}

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The name of the Sensu API (used elsewhere as the `datacenter` name).
required     | false
type         | String
default      | randomly generated
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "us-west-1"{{< /highlight >}}

host         | 
-------------|------
description  | The hostname or IP address of the Sensu API.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"host": "127.0.0.1"{{< /highlight >}}

port         | 
-------------|------
description  | The port of the Sensu API.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 4567
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"port": 4567{{< /highlight >}}

ssl          | 
-------------|------
description  | Determines whether or not to use the HTTPS protocol.
required     | false
type         | Boolean
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ssl": true{{< /highlight >}}

insecure     | 
-------------|------
description  | Determines whether or not to accept an insecure SSL certificate.
required     | false
type         | Boolean
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"insecure": true{{< /highlight >}}

path         | 
-------------|------
description  | The path of the Sensu API. Leave empty unless your Sensu API is not mounted to `/`.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"path": "/my_api"{{< /highlight >}}

timeout      | 
-------------|------
description  | The timeout for the Sensu API, in seconds.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 5
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"timeout": 15{{< /highlight >}}

user         | 
-------------|------
description  | The username of the Sensu API. Leave empty for no authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"user": "my_sensu_api_username"{{< /highlight >}}

pass         | 
-------------|------
description  | The password of the Sensu API. Leave empty for no authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"pass": "my_sensu_api_password"{{< /highlight >}}

#### `dashboard` attributes {#dashboard-attributes}

host         | 
-------------|------
description  | The hostname or IP address on which Sensu Enterprise Dashboard will listen on.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | "0.0.0.0"
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"host": "1.2.3.4"{{< /highlight >}}

port         | 
-------------|------
description  | The port on which Sensu Enterprise Dashboard and Console API will listen on.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 3000
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"port": 3000{{< /highlight >}}

refresh      | 
-------------|------
description  | Determines the interval to poll the Sensu APIs, in seconds.
required     | false
type         | Integer
default      | 5
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"refresh": 5{{< /highlight >}}

ssl          | 
-------------|------
description  | A hash of SSL configuration for native SSL support.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ssl": {
  "certfile": "/path/to/dashboard.pem",
  "keyfile": "/path/to/dashboard.key",
  "ciphersuite": [
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256",
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305",
      "TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305",
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA",
      "TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA",
      "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256",
      "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA",
      "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA"
      ],
  "tlsminversion": "tls10"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

user         | 
-------------|------
description  | A username to enable simple authentication and restrict access to the dashboard. Leave blank along with `pass` to disable simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | "user": "admin"

pass         | 
-------------|------
description  | A password to enable simple authentication and restrict access to the dashboard. Leave blank along with `user` to disable simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"pass": "secret"{{< /highlight >}}

auth         | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`auth` definition scope][11], used to configure JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication signatures.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"auth": {
  "privatekey": "/path/to/console.rsa",
  "publickey": "/path/to/console.rsa.pub"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

audit        | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`audit` definition scope][12], used to configure [Audit Logging][7] for the Sensu Enterprise Dashboard.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"audit": {
  "logfile": "/var/log/sensu/sensu-enterprise-dashboard-audit.log",
  "level": "default"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

github       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`github` definition scope][14], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for GitHub driver][5]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"github": {
  "clientId": "a8e43af034e7f2608780",
  "clientSecret": "b63968394be6ed2edb61c93847ee792f31bf6216",
  "server": "https://github.com",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/devs"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/owners"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

gitlab       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`gitlab` definition scope][15], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for GitLab driver][6]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"gitlab": {
  "clientId": "a8e43af034e7f2608780",
  "clientSecret": "b63968394be6ed2edb61c93847ee792f31bf6216",
  "server": "https://github.com",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/devs"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/owners"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

ldap         | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`ldap` configuration scope][13], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for LDAP driver][4]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ldap": {
  "server": "localhost",
  "port": 389,
  "basedn": "cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
  "binduser": "cn=binder,cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
  "bindpass": "secret",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "guests_group"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "operators_group"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ],
  "insecure": false,
  "security": "none",
  "userattribute": "sAMAccountName"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

oidc         | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`oidc` definition scope][18], used to configure [Role Based Access Controls][3] with the [RBAC for OpenID Connect (OIDC) driver][17]. Overrides simple authentication.
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"oidc": {
  "clientId": "a8e43af034e7f2608780",
  "clientSecret": "b63968394be6ed2edb61c93847ee792f31bf6216",
  "insecure": false,
  "server": "https://localhost:9031",
  "roles": [
    {
      "name": "guests",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/devs"
      ],
      "datacenters": [
        "us-west-1"
      ],
      "subscriptions": [
        "webserver"
      ],
      "readonly": true
    },
    {
      "name": "operators",
      "members": [
        "myorganization/owners"
      ],
      "datacenters": [],
      "subscriptions": [],
      "readonly": false
    }
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### `auth` attributes

_NOTE: By default, temporary keys are generated when the Sensu Enterprise
Dashboard starts. These keys are later destroyed once the process is stopped or
restarted. These keys are used for generating and validating the signatures of
the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication. Specifying static keys is
supported and is necessary when using Sensu Enterprise Console behind a load
balancer. Static keys can be configured by using the `auth` attributes detailed
below._

privatekey   | 
-------------|------
description  | Path to a private RSA key used for generating and validating the signatures of the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"auth": {
  "privatekey": "/path/to/console.rsa"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

public       | 
-------------|------
description  | Path to a public RSA key used for generating and validating the signatures of the JSON Web Tokens (JWT) for authentication.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"auth": {
  "publickey": "/path/to/console.rsa.pub"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### `audit` attributes

Please see the [Sensu Enterprise Dashboard Audit Logging reference
documentation][7] for information on how to configure the dashboard for audit
logging purposes.

#### `github` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for GitHub reference documentation][5] for information on
how to configure the dashboard for RBAC with GitHub.com or GitHub Enterprise.

#### `gitlab` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for GitLab reference documentation][6] for information on
how to configure the dashboard for RBAC with GitLab.

#### `ldap` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for LDAP reference documentation][4] for information on how
to configure the dashboard for RBAC with LDAP.

#### `oidc` attributes

Please see the [RBAC for OIDC reference documentation][4] for information on how
to configure the dashboard for RBAC with OpenID Connect (OIDC).

[1]:  ../#what-is-a-sensu-datacenter
[2]: /sensu-core/1.2/reference/configuration/#configuration-merging
[3]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/overview
[4]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-ldap
[5]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-github
[6]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-gitlab
[7]:  /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/audit-logging
[8]:  #dashboard-definition-specification
[9]:  #configuration-scopes
[10]: #configuration-merging
[11]: #auth-attributes
[12]: #audit-attributes
[13]: #ldap-attributes
[14]: #github-attributes
[15]: #gitlab-attributes
[16]: /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/overview/#rbac-for-the-sensu-enterprise-console-api
[17]: /sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.11/rbac/rbac-for-oidc
[18]: #oidc-attributes
