content/sensu-core/2.0/reference/entities.md, before:

---
title: "Entities"
description: "The entities reference guide."
weight: 1
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: reference
---

## How do entities work?

Agent entities are monitoring agents, which are installed and run on every system that needs to be monitored. The entity is responsible for registering the system with the Sensu backend service, sending keepalive messages (the Sensu heartbeat mechanism), and executing monitoring checks. Each entity is a member of one or more `subscriptions` – a list of roles and/or responsibilities assigned to the agent entity (e.g. a webserver, database, etc). Sensu entities will "subscribe" to (or watch for) check requests published by the Sensu server (via the Sensu Transport), execute the corresponding requests locally, and publish the results of the check back to the transport (to be processed by a Sensu server).

## New and improved entities

An `entity`, formally known as a `client` in Sensu 1.x, represents anything (e.g. server, container, network switch, etc) that needs to be monitored. Sensu 2.0 uses an updated data model that allows for it to acknowledge the full range of infrastructure, runtime and application types that compose a complete monitoring environment (from server hardware to "serverless" functions). Sensu no longer focuses on the object doing the monitoring and instead focuses on the object it monitors. We call these monitored parts of an infrastructure "entities." An Entity not only provides context to event data (what/where the event is from) but an event's uniqueness is determined by the check name and the ID of the entity upon which the check ran. In addition, an entity can contain system information such as the hostname, OS, platform, and version. 

## Entities specification

### Entity Attributes

ID           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The unique ID of the entity, validated with go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2)
required     | true
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ID": "example-hostname"{{</ highlight >}}

class        | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity type, validated with go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2)
required     | true
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"class": "agent"{{</ highlight >}}

subscriptions| 
-------------|------ 
description  | A list of subscription names for the entity. 
required     | false 
type         | array 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": ["web", "prod"]{{</ highlight >}}

system       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | System information about the entity, such as operating system and platform.
required     | false 
type         | [System][1] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
"system": {
"hostname": "example-hostname",
    "os": "linux",
    "platform": "ubuntu",
    "platform_family": "debian",
    "platform_version": "16.04",
    "network": {
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "arch": "amd64"
}
{{</ highlight >}}

last_seen    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | Timestamp the entity was last seen, in epoch time. 
required     | false 
type         | integer 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"last_seen": 1522798317 {{</ highlight >}}


deregister   | 
-------------|------ 
description  | If the entity should be removed when it stops sending keepalive messages. 
required     | false 
type         | boolean 
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"deregister": false {{</ highlight >}}

deregistration  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | A map containing a handler name, for use when an entity is deregistered. 
required     | false 
type         | [Deregistration][2] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
  "deregistration": {
    "handler": "email-handler"
}
{{</ highlight >}}

keepalive_timeout  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The time in seconds until an entity keepalive is considered stale. 
required     | false 
type         | integer 
default      | 120
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"keepalive_timeout": 120 {{</ highlight >}}

organization | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC organization that this entity belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "organization": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

environment  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC environment that this entity belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | string 
default      | current environment value configured for `sensuctl` (ie `default`) 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "environment": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

extended_attributes | 
-------------|------ 
description  | Custom attributes to include as with the entity, that appear as outer-level attributes.
required     | false 
type         | byte 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"team":"ops"{{</ highlight >}}

redact       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | List of items to redact from log messages. 
required     | false 
type         | array 
default      | ["password", "passwd", "pass", "api_key", "api_token", "access_key", "secret_key", "private_key", "secret"]
example      | {{< highlight json >}}"redact": [
  "extra_secret_tokens"
]
{{</ highlight >}}

### System Attributes

hostname     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The hostname of the entity. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"hostname": "example-hostname" {{</ highlight >}}

os           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"os": "linux" {{</ highlight >}}

platform     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system distribution. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform": "ubuntu" {{</ highlight >}}

platform_family     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system family. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_family": "debian" {{</ highlight >}}

platform_version     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system version. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_version": "16.04" {{</ highlight >}}

network     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's network interface list. 
required     | false 
type         | [Network][3] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
"network": {
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
}
{{</ highlight >}}

arch         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's system architecture. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"arch": "amd64" {{</ highlight >}}

### Network Attributes

network_interface         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of network interfaces available on the entity, with their associated MAC and IP addresses. 
required     | false 
type         | array [NetworkInterface][4] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
{{</ highlight >}}

### NetworkInterface Attributes

name         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface name.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "eth0"{{</ highlight >}}

mac          | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface's MAC address.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c"{{</ highlight >}}

addresses    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of IP addresses for the interface.
required     | false 
type         | array 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}  "addresses": [
    "93.184.216.34/24",
    "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
]
{{</ highlight >}}

### Deregistration Attributes

handler      | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The name of the handler to be called when an entity is deregistered.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handler": "email-handler"{{</ highlight >}}

## Examples

### Entity definition

{{< highlight json >}}
[
  {
    "class": "agent",
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "environment": "default",
    "id": "example-hostname",
    "keepalive_timeout": 60,
    "last_seen": 1523387195,
    "organization": "default",
    "redact": [
      "password",
      "passwd",
      "pass",
      "api_key",
      "api_token",
      "access_key",
      "secret_key",
      "private_key",
      "secret"
    ],
    "subscriptions": [
      "entity:example-hostname"
    ],
    "system": {
      "hostname": "example-hostname",
      "os": "linux",
      "platform": "ubuntu",
      "platform_family": "debian",
      "platform_version": "16.04",
      "network": {
        "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
          "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
          "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
        ]
      },
      "arch": "amd64"
    }
    "user": "agent",
    "region": "us-west-1",
    "team": "ops"
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: #system-attributes
[2]: #deregistration-attributes
[3]: #network-attributes
[4]: #networkinterface-attributes

Commit message:

Added section for proxy entities

content/sensu-core/2.0/reference/entities.md, after:

---
title: "Entities"
description: "The entities reference guide."
weight: 1
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: reference
---

## How do entities work?

Agent entities are monitoring agents, which are installed and run on every system that needs to be monitored. The entity is responsible for registering the system with the Sensu backend service, sending keepalive messages (the Sensu heartbeat mechanism), and executing monitoring checks. Each entity is a member of one or more `subscriptions` – a list of roles and/or responsibilities assigned to the agent entity (e.g. a webserver, database, etc). Sensu entities will "subscribe" to (or watch for) check requests published by the Sensu server (via the Sensu Transport), execute the corresponding requests locally, and publish the results of the check back to the transport (to be processed by a Sensu server).

## Proxy Entities

Proxy entities (formerly known as proxy clients, "Just-in-time" or "JIT" clients) are dynamically created entities, added to the entity store if an entity does not already exist for a check result. Proxy entity registration differs from keepalive-based registration because the registration event happens while processing a check result (not a keepalive message). Sensu proxy entities allow Sensu to monitor external resources (e.g. on systems and/or devices where a sensu-agent cannot be installed, such a network switches), using the defined check ProxyEntityID to create a proxy entity for the external resource. Once created, proxy entities work much in the same way as any other Sensu entity.

## New and improved entities

An `entity`, formally known as a `client` in Sensu 1.x, represents anything (e.g. server, container, network switch, etc) that needs to be monitored. Sensu 2.0 uses an updated data model that allows for it to acknowledge the full range of infrastructure, runtime and application types that compose a complete monitoring environment (from server hardware to "serverless" functions). Sensu no longer focuses on the object doing the monitoring and instead focuses on the object it monitors. We call these monitored parts of an infrastructure "entities." An Entity not only provides context to event data (what/where the event is from) but an event's uniqueness is determined by the check name and the ID of the entity upon which the check ran. In addition, an entity can contain system information such as the hostname, OS, platform, and version. 

## Entities specification

### Entity Attributes

ID           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The unique ID of the entity, validated with go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2)
required     | true
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"ID": "example-hostname"{{</ highlight >}}

class        | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity type, validated with go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2)
required     | true
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"class": "agent"{{</ highlight >}}

subscriptions| 
-------------|------ 
description  | A list of subscription names for the entity. 
required     | false 
type         | array 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": ["web", "prod"]{{</ highlight >}}

system       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | System information about the entity, such as operating system and platform.
required     | false 
type         | [System][1] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
"system": {
"hostname": "example-hostname",
    "os": "linux",
    "platform": "ubuntu",
    "platform_family": "debian",
    "platform_version": "16.04",
    "network": {
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "arch": "amd64"
}
{{</ highlight >}}

last_seen    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | Timestamp the entity was last seen, in epoch time. 
required     | false 
type         | integer 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"last_seen": 1522798317 {{</ highlight >}}


deregister   | 
-------------|------ 
description  | If the entity should be removed when it stops sending keepalive messages. 
required     | false 
type         | boolean 
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"deregister": false {{</ highlight >}}

deregistration  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | A map containing a handler name, for use when an entity is deregistered. 
required     | false 
type         | [Deregistration][2] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
  "deregistration": {
    "handler": "email-handler"
}
{{</ highlight >}}

keepalive_timeout  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The time in seconds until an entity keepalive is considered stale. 
required     | false 
type         | integer 
default      | 120
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"keepalive_timeout": 120 {{</ highlight >}}

organization | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC organization that this entity belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "organization": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

environment  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC environment that this entity belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | string 
default      | current environment value configured for `sensuctl` (ie `default`) 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "environment": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

extended_attributes | 
-------------|------ 
description  | Custom attributes to include as with the entity, that appear as outer-level attributes.
required     | false 
type         | byte 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"team":"ops"{{</ highlight >}}

redact       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | List of items to redact from log messages. 
required     | false 
type         | array 
default      | ["password", "passwd", "pass", "api_key", "api_token", "access_key", "secret_key", "private_key", "secret"]
example      | {{< highlight json >}}"redact": [
  "extra_secret_tokens"
]
{{</ highlight >}}

### System Attributes

hostname     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The hostname of the entity. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"hostname": "example-hostname" {{</ highlight >}}

os           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"os": "linux" {{</ highlight >}}

platform     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system distribution. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform": "ubuntu" {{</ highlight >}}

platform_family     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system family. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_family": "debian" {{</ highlight >}}

platform_version     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system version. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_version": "16.04" {{</ highlight >}}

network     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's network interface list. 
required     | false 
type         | [Network][3] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
"network": {
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
}
{{</ highlight >}}

arch         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's system architecture. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"arch": "amd64" {{</ highlight >}}

### Network Attributes

network_interface         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of network interfaces available on the entity, with their associated MAC and IP addresses. 
required     | false 
type         | array [NetworkInterface][4] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
{{</ highlight >}}

### NetworkInterface Attributes

name         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface name.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "eth0"{{</ highlight >}}

mac          | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface's MAC address.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c"{{</ highlight >}}

addresses    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of IP addresses for the interface.
required     | false 
type         | array 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}  "addresses": [
    "93.184.216.34/24",
    "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
]
{{</ highlight >}}

### Deregistration Attributes

handler      | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The name of the handler to be called when an entity is deregistered.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handler": "email-handler"{{</ highlight >}}

## Examples

### Entity definition

{{< highlight json >}}
[
  {
    "class": "agent",
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "environment": "default",
    "id": "example-hostname",
    "keepalive_timeout": 60,
    "last_seen": 1523387195,
    "organization": "default",
    "redact": [
      "password",
      "passwd",
      "pass",
      "api_key",
      "api_token",
      "access_key",
      "secret_key",
      "private_key",
      "secret"
    ],
    "subscriptions": [
      "entity:example-hostname"
    ],
    "system": {
      "hostname": "example-hostname",
      "os": "linux",
      "platform": "ubuntu",
      "platform_family": "debian",
      "platform_version": "16.04",
      "network": {
        "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
          "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
          "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
        ]
      },
      "arch": "amd64"
    }
    "user": "agent",
    "region": "us-west-1",
    "team": "ops"
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: #system-attributes
[2]: #deregistration-attributes
[3]: #network-attributes
[4]: #networkinterface-attributes
