content/sensu-core/2.0/reference/handlers.md, before:

---
title: "Handlers"
description: "The handlers reference guide."
weight: 1
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: reference
---

## How do Sensu handlers work?

Handlers actions are executed by the Sensu backend on events, and there are
several types of handlers available. The most common handler type is the `pipe`
handler, which works very similarly to how [checks][1] work, enabling Sensu to
interact with almost any computer program via [standard streams][2].

- **Pipe handlers**. Pipe handlers pipe event data into arbitrary commands via
  `STDIN`.
- **TCP/UDP handlers**. TCP and UDP handlers send event data to a remote socket
  (i.e., external API).
- **Handler sets**. Handler sets (also called "set handlers") are used to group
  event handlers, making it easy to manage groups of actions that should be
  executed for certain types of events.

### Pipe handlers

Pipe handlers are external commands that can consume [event][3] data via STDIN.

#### Pipe handler command

Pipe handler definitions include a `command` attribute, which is a command to be
executed by the Sensu backend.

#### Pipe handler command arguments

Pipe handler `command` attributes may include command line arguments for
controlling the behavior of the `command` executable.

### TCP/UDP handlers

TCP and UDP handlers enable Sensu to forward event data to arbitrary TCP or UDP
sockets for external services to consume (i.e., third-party APIs).

### Handler sets

Handler set definitions allow groups of handlers (i.e., individual collections
of actions to take on event data) to be referenced via a single named handler
set.

_NOTE: Attributes defined on handler sets do not apply to the handlers they
include. For example, `filter`, `filters`, and `mutator` attributes defined 
in a handler set will have no effect._

## New and improved handlers

### Default handler

Sensu no longer attempts to handle events using a handler named `default`, which
caused confusion as this default handler was only a reference, since Sensu did
not provide a built-in default handler.

### Transport handlers

Sensu architecture considerably changed between the 1.0 and 2.0 versions, and a
dedicated message bus (i.e., RabbitMQ) is no longer used. Therefore, [transport
handlers][5] have been removed but a similar functionality could be achieved
using a pipe handler that connects to a message bus and injects event data into
a queue.

## Handler specification

### Handler naming

Each handler definition must have a unique name within its organization and
environment.

* A unique string used to name/identify the handler
* Cannot contain special characters or spaces
* Validated with Go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2)

### Handler attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | The handler type.
required     | true
type         | String
allowed values | `pipe`, `tcp`, `udp` & `set`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "pipe"{{< /highlight >}}

filters      | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of Sensu event filters (names) to use when filtering events for the handler. Each array item must be a string.
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"filters": ["recurrence", "production"]{{< /highlight >}}

mutator      | 
-------------|------
description  | The Sensu event mutator (name) to use to mutate event data for the handler.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"mutator": "only_check_output"{{< /highlight >}}

timeout     | 
------------|------
description | The handler execution duration timeout in seconds (hard stop). Only used by `pipe` and `tcp` handler types.
required    | false
type        | Integer
default     | `60` (for `tcp` handler)
example     | {{< highlight shell >}}"timeout": 30{{< /highlight >}}

command      | 
-------------|------
description  | The handler command to be executed. The event data is passed to the process via `STDIN`._NOTE: the `command` attribute is only supported for Pipe handlers (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "pipe"`)._
required     | true (if `type` equals `pipe`)
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"command": "/etc/sensu/plugins/pagerduty.rb"{{< /highlight >}}

env_vars      | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of environment variables to use with command execution._NOTE: the `env_vars` attribute is only supported for Pipe handlers (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "pipe"`)._
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"env_vars": ["API_KEY=0428d6b8nb51an4d95nbe28nf90865a66af5"]{{< /highlight >}}

socket       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`socket` definition scope][6], used to configure the TCP/UDP handler socket._NOTE: the `socket` attribute is only supported for TCP/UDP handlers (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "tcp"` or `"type": "udp"`)._
required     | true (if `type` equals `tcp` or `udp`)
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"socket": {}{{< /highlight >}}

handlers     | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of Sensu event handlers (names) to use for events using the handler set. Each array item must be a string._NOTE: the `handlers` attribute is only supported for handler sets (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "set"`)._
required     | true (if `type` equals `set`)
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handlers": ["pagerduty", "email", "ec2"]{{< /highlight >}}

organization | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC organization that this handler belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | String
default      | current organization value configured for `sensuctl` (i.e., `default`) 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "organization": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

environment  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC environment that this handler belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | String 
default      | current environment value configured for `sensuctl` (i.e., `default`) 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "environment": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

### `socket` attributes

host         | 
-------------|------
description  | The socket host address (IP or hostname) to connect to.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"host": "8.8.8.8"{{< /highlight >}}

port         | 
-------------|------
description  | The socket port to connect to.
required     | true
type         | Integer
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"port": 4242{{< /highlight >}}

## Handler examples

### Sending slack alerts

This handler will send alerts to a channel named `monitoring` with the
configured webhook URL, using the `handler-slack` executable command.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "slack",
  "type": "pipe",
  "command": "handler-slack --webhook-url https://hooks.slack.com/services/T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX --channel monitoring"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Sending event data to a TCP socket

This handler will forward event data to a TCP socker (i.e., 10.0.1.99:4444) and
will timeout if an acknowledgement (`ACK`) is not received within 30 seconds.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "tcp_handler",
  "type": "tcp",
  "socket": {
    "host": "10.0.1.99",
    "port": 4444
  },
  "timeout": 30
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Sending event data to a UDP socket

The following example will also forward event data but to UDP socket instead
(i.e., 10.0.1.99:4444).

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "udp_handler",
  "type": "udp",
  "socket": {
    "host": "10.0.1.99",
    "port": 4444
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Executing multiple handlers

The following example handler will execute three handlers (e.g., `slack`,
`tcp_handler` and `udp_handler`).

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "notify_all_the_things",
  "type": "set",
  "handlers": [
    "slack",
    "tcp_handler",
    "udp_handler"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: ../checks/
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams
[3]: ../events/
[4]: ../../../1.2/reference/handlers/#the-default-handler
[5]: ../../../1.2/reference/handlers/#transport-handlers
[6]: #socket-attributes

Commit message:

Clarification around is_incident built-in filter
Signed-off-by: Simon Plourde <simon@sensu.io>

content/sensu-core/2.0/reference/handlers.md, after:

---
title: "Handlers"
description: "The handlers reference guide."
weight: 1
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: reference
---

## How do Sensu handlers work?

Handlers actions are executed by the Sensu backend on events, and there are
several types of handlers available. The most common handler type is the `pipe`
handler, which works very similarly to how [checks][1] work, enabling Sensu to
interact with almost any computer program via [standard streams][2].

- **Pipe handlers**. Pipe handlers pipe event data into arbitrary commands via
  `STDIN`.
- **TCP/UDP handlers**. TCP and UDP handlers send event data to a remote socket
  (i.e., external API).
- **Handler sets**. Handler sets (also called "set handlers") are used to group
  event handlers, making it easy to manage groups of actions that should be
  executed for certain types of events.

### Pipe handlers

Pipe handlers are external commands that can consume [event][3] data via STDIN.

#### Pipe handler command

Pipe handler definitions include a `command` attribute, which is a command to be
executed by the Sensu backend.

#### Pipe handler command arguments

Pipe handler `command` attributes may include command line arguments for
controlling the behavior of the `command` executable.

### TCP/UDP handlers

TCP and UDP handlers enable Sensu to forward event data to arbitrary TCP or UDP
sockets for external services to consume (i.e., third-party APIs).

### Handler sets

Handler set definitions allow groups of handlers (i.e., individual collections
of actions to take on event data) to be referenced via a single named handler
set.

_NOTE: Attributes defined on handler sets do not apply to the handlers they
include. For example, `filter`, `filters`, and `mutator` attributes defined 
in a handler set will have no effect._

## New and improved handlers

### Default handler

Sensu no longer attempts to handle events using a handler named `default`, which
caused confusion as this default handler was only a reference, since Sensu did
not provide a built-in default handler.

### Transport handlers

Sensu architecture considerably changed between the 1.x and 2.x versions, and a
dedicated message bus (i.e., RabbitMQ) is no longer used. Therefore, [transport
handlers][5] have been removed but a similar functionality could be achieved
using a pipe handler that connects to a message bus and injects event data into
a queue.

### Each and every check results are handled

All check results are now considered to be events, and therefore these events
are automatically sent to the check handlers, no matter their status, whereas
only non-zero check results were considered as events and sent to handlers in
Sensu 1.x.

That being said, 1.x behaviour can be replicated in Sensu 2.x by using the
built-in `is_incident` filter.

## Handler specification

### Handler naming

Each handler definition must have a unique name within its organization and
environment.

* A unique string used to name/identify the handler
* Cannot contain special characters or spaces
* Validated with Go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2)

### Handler attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | The handler type.
required     | true
type         | String
allowed values | `pipe`, `tcp`, `udp` & `set`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "pipe"{{< /highlight >}}

filters      | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of Sensu event filters (names) to use when filtering events for the handler. Each array item must be a string.
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"filters": ["recurrence", "production"]{{< /highlight >}}

mutator      | 
-------------|------
description  | The Sensu event mutator (name) to use to mutate event data for the handler.
required     | false
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"mutator": "only_check_output"{{< /highlight >}}

timeout     | 
------------|------
description | The handler execution duration timeout in seconds (hard stop). Only used by `pipe` and `tcp` handler types.
required    | false
type        | Integer
default     | `60` (for `tcp` handler)
example     | {{< highlight shell >}}"timeout": 30{{< /highlight >}}

command      | 
-------------|------
description  | The handler command to be executed. The event data is passed to the process via `STDIN`._NOTE: the `command` attribute is only supported for Pipe handlers (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "pipe"`)._
required     | true (if `type` equals `pipe`)
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"command": "/etc/sensu/plugins/pagerduty.rb"{{< /highlight >}}

env_vars      | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of environment variables to use with command execution._NOTE: the `env_vars` attribute is only supported for Pipe handlers (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "pipe"`)._
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"env_vars": ["API_KEY=0428d6b8nb51an4d95nbe28nf90865a66af5"]{{< /highlight >}}

socket       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`socket` definition scope][6], used to configure the TCP/UDP handler socket._NOTE: the `socket` attribute is only supported for TCP/UDP handlers (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "tcp"` or `"type": "udp"`)._
required     | true (if `type` equals `tcp` or `udp`)
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"socket": {}{{< /highlight >}}

handlers     | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of Sensu event handlers (names) to use for events using the handler set. Each array item must be a string._NOTE: the `handlers` attribute is only supported for handler sets (i.e. handlers configured with `"type": "set"`)._
required     | true (if `type` equals `set`)
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handlers": ["pagerduty", "email", "ec2"]{{< /highlight >}}

organization | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC organization that this handler belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | String
default      | current organization value configured for `sensuctl` (i.e., `default`) 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "organization": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

environment  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The Sensu RBAC environment that this handler belongs to.
required     | false 
type         | String 
default      | current environment value configured for `sensuctl` (i.e., `default`) 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
  "environment": "default"
{{</ highlight >}}

### `socket` attributes

host         | 
-------------|------
description  | The socket host address (IP or hostname) to connect to.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"host": "8.8.8.8"{{< /highlight >}}

port         | 
-------------|------
description  | The socket port to connect to.
required     | true
type         | Integer
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"port": 4242{{< /highlight >}}

## Handler examples

### Sending slack alerts

This handler will send alerts to a channel named `monitoring` with the
configured webhook URL, using the `handler-slack` executable command.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "slack",
  "type": "pipe",
  "command": "handler-slack --webhook-url https://hooks.slack.com/services/T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX --channel monitoring"
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Sending event data to a TCP socket

This handler will forward event data to a TCP socker (i.e., 10.0.1.99:4444) and
will timeout if an acknowledgement (`ACK`) is not received within 30 seconds.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "tcp_handler",
  "type": "tcp",
  "socket": {
    "host": "10.0.1.99",
    "port": 4444
  },
  "timeout": 30
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Sending event data to a UDP socket

The following example will also forward event data but to UDP socket instead
(i.e., 10.0.1.99:4444).

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "udp_handler",
  "type": "udp",
  "socket": {
    "host": "10.0.1.99",
    "port": 4444
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Executing multiple handlers

The following example handler will execute three handlers (e.g., `slack`,
`tcp_handler` and `udp_handler`).

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "name": "notify_all_the_things",
  "type": "set",
  "handlers": [
    "slack",
    "tcp_handler",
    "udp_handler"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: ../checks/
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams
[3]: ../events/
[4]: ../../../1.2/reference/handlers/#the-default-handler
[5]: ../../../1.2/reference/handlers/#transport-handlers
[6]: #socket-attributes
