---
title: "Business service monitoring SDK"
linkTitle: "Business Service Monitoring SDK"
description: "Use Sensu's business service monitoring SDK of JavaScript-based expressions to add functionality for Sensu rule templates that evaluate service components."
weight: 130
version: "6.8"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-go-6.8:
    parent: observe-schedule
---

{{% notice commercial %}}
**COMMERCIAL FEATURE**: Access business service monitoring (BSM) in the packaged Sensu Go distribution.
For more information, read [Get started with commercial features](../../../commercial/).
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: Business service monitoring (BSM) is in public preview and is subject to change.
{{% /notice %}}

Sensu's business service monitoring (BSM) feature uses a dedicated SDK of JavaScript-based expressions that provide additional functionality.
Use the BSM SDK to create custom JavaScript expressions with complex logic.

BSM SDK expressions are defined in [rule templates][3], so they act in the context of determining whether aggregate data derived from a service component’s selection of Sensu Go events should trigger a rule-based event.
They always receive a single event and some information about that event, like `event.timestamp` or `event.check.interval`, and always return either `true` or `false`.

BSM SDK expressions are evaluated by the [Otto JavaScript VM][1] as JavaScript programs.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: [Sensu query expressions](../../observe-filter/sensu-query-expressions/) also provide JavaScript functions for using nested parameters and custom functions to retrieve events from the event store.
{{% /notice %}}

## Syntax quick reference

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>operator</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>===</code></td>
<td>Identity</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>!==</code></td>
<td>Nonidentity</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>==</code></td>
<td>Equality</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>!=</code></td>
<td>Inequality</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>&&</code></td>
<td>Logical AND</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>||</code></td>
<td>Logical OR</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code><</code></td>
<td>Less than</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>></code></td>
<td>Greater than</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code><=</code></td>
<td>Less than or equal to</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>>=</code></td>
<td>Greater than or equal to</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Specification

BSM SDK expressions are valid ECMAScript 5 (JavaScript) expressions that return either `true` or `false`.
Other values are not allowed.
If an expression returns a value besides `true` or `false`, the [Sensu backend log][2] will record an error and the filter will evaluate to `false`.

The BSM SDK allows you to to express rules for the number or percentage of events with critical, warning, OK, and unknown statuses.
You can also configure expressions to ignore silenced events.

## Custom functions

The Sensu BSM SDK includes two custom functions: `sensu.Count()` and `sensu.Percentage()`.

### sensu.Count()

The custom function `sensu.Count()` returns the number of events with the specified status.
For example, to return the number of events with `ok` status:

{{< code go >}}
sensu.Count("ok")
{{< /code >}}

### sensu.Percentage()

The custom function `sensu.Percentage()` returns the percentage of events with the specified status.
For example, to return the percentage of events with `critical` status:

{{< code go >}}
sensu.Percentage("critical")
{{< /code >}}

## Example BSM SDK expression

The following BSM SDK expression creates a critical event if at least 35% of events generated by the service component have `critical` status **or** creates a warning event if the service component generates one or more events with `warning` status:

{{< code go >}}
if (sensu.Percentage("critical") >= 35) {
  event.check = {status: 2, output: "critical event"}
} else if (sensu.Count("warning") >= 1) {
  event.check = {status: 1, output: "warning event"}
}
{{< /code >}}


[1]: https://github.com/robertkrimen/otto
[2]: ../backend/#event-logging
[3]: ../rule-templates/
