content/sensu-go/5.0/getting-started/get-started.md, before:

---
title: "Get started with Sensu"
linkTitle: "Get Started with Sensu"
description: "Sensu Go is the free and open source monitoring event pipeline, written in Go and designed for container-based and hybrid-cloud infrastructures. Get started with the Sensu sandbox."
version: "5.0"
weight: 1
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.0:
    parent: getting-started
---

### Try the sandbox

The sandbox is the best place to get started with Sensu and try out new features.

- [Download the sandbox and learn Sensu Go][7]
- [See more sandbox lessons][1]

### Install Sensu Go (OSS)

Sensu Go is the free and open source monitoring event pipeline, written in Go and designed for container-based and hybrid-cloud infrastructures.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]

### Create a monitoring workflow

Sensu lets you create automated monitoring workflows to route system metrics and alerts.
Get started by following one of the Sensu Go guides.

- [Monitor server resources][3]
- [Send Slack alerts][4]
- [Collect StatsD metrics][5]
- [Store metrics with InfluxDB][6]

[1]: ../sandbox
[2]: ../../installation/install-sensu
[3]: ../../guides/monitor-server-resources
[4]: ../../guides/send-slack-alerts
[5]: ../../guides/aggregate-metrics-statsd
[6]: ../../guides/influx-db-metric-handler
[7]: ../learn-sensu

Commit message:

SEO descriptions (#1181)
* fix links

* call out compatibility for enterprise

* seo descriptions

content/sensu-go/5.0/getting-started/get-started.md, after:

---
title: "Get started with Sensu"
linkTitle: "Get Started with Sensu"
description: "It’s easy to get started with Sensu Go. Download the sandbox, install our open source monitoring software, or try our enterprise features. Get started with Sensu today."
version: "5.0"
weight: 1
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.0:
    parent: getting-started
---

### Try the sandbox

The sandbox is the best place to get started with Sensu and try out new features.

- [Download the sandbox and learn Sensu Go][7]
- [See more sandbox lessons][1]

### Install Sensu Go (OSS)

Sensu Go is the free and open source monitoring event pipeline, written in Go and designed for container-based and hybrid-cloud infrastructures.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]

### Create a monitoring workflow

Sensu lets you create automated monitoring workflows to route system metrics and alerts.
Get started by following one of the Sensu Go guides.

- [Monitor server resources][3]
- [Send Slack alerts][4]
- [Collect StatsD metrics][5]
- [Store metrics with InfluxDB][6]

[1]: ../sandbox
[2]: ../../installation/install-sensu
[3]: ../../guides/monitor-server-resources
[4]: ../../guides/send-slack-alerts
[5]: ../../guides/aggregate-metrics-statsd
[6]: ../../guides/influx-db-metric-handler
[7]: ../learn-sensu
