---
title: "Email integration"
linkTitle: "Email"
description: "Use the Sensu Email Handler plugin to integrate Sensu with your existing alerting workflows. Read about the features of Sensu's Email integration and learn how to get the plugin."
version: "6.0"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-6.0:
    parent: supported-integrations
---

The Sensu Email Handler plugin is a Sensu [handler][1] that sends email alerts based on your event data.
With this handler, Sensu can send email messages to the email addresses you specify based on event data generated by your Sensu checks.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: The Sensu Email Handler plugin is an example of Sensu's alerting integrations.
To find more integrations, search [Bonsai, the Sensu asset hub](https://bonsai.sensu.io/).
{{% /notice %}}

## Features

The Sensu Email Handler plugin supports the login authentication mechanisms required for use with Google Mail, Office 365, and other standards-based email providers and transports.

- Use [event-based templating][2] to include observation data from event attributes to add meaningful, actionable context to your email alert messages.
- Keep your email provider username and password secure with Sensu [environment variables and secrets management][7].

## Get the plugin

Add the [Sensu Email Handler plugin][4] with a dynamic runtime asset from Bonsai, the Sensu asset hub, to build your own workflow or integrate Sensu with your existing email workflows.
[Dynamic runtime assets][5] are shareable, reusable packages that make it easier to deploy Sensu plugins.

## More resources

- Walk through adding and configuring the Sensu Email Handler asset in the [Send email alerts with the Sensu Go Email Handler][3] guide.
- Try the Sensu Email Handler integration in your browswer with the [Up and running with Sensu Go][6] interactive tutorial.


[1]: ../../../observability-pipeline/observe-process/handlers/
[2]: ../../../observability-pipeline/observe-process/handler-templates/
[3]: ../../../observability-pipeline/observe-process/send-email-alerts/
[4]: https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-email-handler
[5]: ../../assets/
[6]: ../../../learn/up-and-running/
[7]: ../../../operations/manage-secrets/
