content/sensu-core/2.0/getting-started/installation-and-configuration.md, before:

---
title: "Installing and configuring Sensu 2.0"
linkTitle: "Installation and Configuration"
description: "The Sensu Core installation guide."
weight: 1
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: true
platforms: ["Ubuntu/Debian", "RHEL/CentOS", "Windows", "Docker"]
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: getting-started
---

The Sensu 2.0 binaries are statically linked and can be deployed to any Linux or Windows operating system.
Select a platform from the dropdown above.

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS" >}}

## Install the Sensu Backend
The Sensu backend (sensu-backend) is a single statically linked binary that can be deployed via packages (.deb or .rpm) or [Docker image](#docker). Sensu backend packages are available for Ubuntu/Debian and RHEL/CentOS.

### 1. Install the package

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian" >}}

#### Ubuntu/Debian
Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.deb.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the packages from the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo apt-get install sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "RHEL/CentOS" >}}

#### RHEL/CentOS

Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.rpm.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the Sensu backend and agent packages.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo yum install sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS" >}}

### 2. Create the configuration file

Copy the example backend config file to the default config path.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo cp /etc/sensu/backend.yml.example /etc/sensu/backend.yml
{{< /highlight >}}

The backend config requires `state-dir` to be set. The example config sets `state-dir` to `/var/lib/sensu` by
default.

### 3. Start the service

Start the services using systemd.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo systemctl start sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the services are properly running using the log files.

{{< highlight shell >}}
journalctl -u sensu-backend -f
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: On Ubuntu 14.04, CentOS 6, and RHEL 6, use `sudo /etc/init.d/sensu-backend start` to start the backend and `tail -f /var/log/sensu/sensu-backend.log` to verify it._
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS Windows" >}}

## Agent Installation
The Sensu Agent (sensu-agent) is a single statically linked binary that can be deployed via packages (.deb or .rpm) or Docker image. The agent is available for Ubuntu/Debian, RHEL/CentOS, and Windows.

### 1. Install the package

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian" >}}

#### Ubuntu/Debian

Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.deb.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the packages from the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo apt-get install sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "RHEL/CentOS" >}}
#### RHEL/CentOS

Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.rpm.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the Sensu backend and agent packages.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo yum install sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Windows" >}}
#### Windows

Download the [Sensu agent binary](https://storage.googleapis.com/sensu-binaries/2.0.0-beta.4-1/windows/amd64/sensu-agent).
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS Windows" >}}

### 2. Create the configuration file

Copy the example agent config file to the default config path.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo cp /etc/sensu/agent.yml.example /etc/sensu/agent.yml
{{< /highlight >}}

In order for the agent to function, it will need to have a list of one or more backends to point to. This can be set
by setting `backend-url` to the ip and port of a Sensu backend.

{{< highlight yaml >}}
backend-url:
  - "ws://127.0.0.1:8081"
{{< /highlight >}}

### 3. Start the service

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS" >}}
#### Ubuntu/Debian/RHEL/CentOS

Start the services using systemd.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo systemctl start sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the services are properly running using the log files.

{{< highlight shell >}}
journalctl -u sensu-agent -f
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: On Ubuntu 14.04, CentOS 6, and RHEL 6, use `sudo /etc/init.d/sensu-backend start` to start the backend and `tail -f /var/log/sensu/sensu-backend.log` to verify it._
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Windows" >}}
#### Windows

Coming soon.
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Docker" >}}
## Docker

Sensu 2.0 can be run via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) or [rkt](https://coreos.com/rkt) using the [sensu/sensu](https://hub.docker.com/r/sensu/sensu/) image. When running Sensu from Docker there are a couple of things to take into consideration.

The backend requires 3 exposed ports and persistent storage. This example uses a shared filesystem. Sensu 2.0 is backed by a distributed database, and its storage should be provisioned accordingly.  We recommend local storage or something like Throughput Optimized or Provisioned IOPS EBS if local storage is unavailable.  The 3 exposed ports are:

- 2380: Sensu storage peer listener (only other sensu-backends need access to this port)
- 3000: Sensu dashboard (not yet complete)
- 8080: Sensu API (all users need access to this port)
- 8081: Agent API (all agents need access to this port)

We suggest, but do not require, persistent storage for sensu-agents. The Sensu Agent will cache runtime assets locally for each check. This storage should be unique per sensu-agent process.

### How To

1. Start the sensu-backend process
{{< highlight shell >}}
docker run -v /var/lib/sensu:/var/lib/sensu -d --name sensu-backend -p 2380:2380 \
-p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 sensu/sensu:2.0.0-beta.3 sensu-backend start
{{< /highlight >}}

2. Start an agent
In this case, we're starting an agent whose ID is the hostname with the webserver and system subscriptions. This assumes that sensu-backend is running on another host named sensu.yourdomain.com. If you are running these locally on the same system, be sure to add `--link sensu-backend` to your Docker arguments and change the backend URL `--backend-url ws://sensu-backend:8081`.
{{< highlight shell >}}
docker run -v /var/lib/sensu:/var/lib/sensu -d --name sensu-agent \
sensu/sensu:2.0.0-beta.3 sensu-agent start --backend-url ws://sensu.yourdomain.com:8081 \
--subscriptions webserver,system --cache-dir /var/lib/sensu
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: You can configure the sensu-backend and sensu-agent log levels by using the `--log-level` flag on either process. Log levels include `panic`, `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, and `debug`, defaulting to `warn`._

### sensuctl and Docker

It's best to run sensuctl locally and point it at the exposed API port for your sensu-backend process. The sensuctl utility stores configuration locally, and you'll likely want to persist it across uses. While it can be run from the docker container, doing so may be problematic.

Commit message:

Document handler and mutator assets
Signed-off-by: Nikki Attea <nikki@sensu.io>

content/sensu-core/2.0/getting-started/installation-and-configuration.md, after:

---
title: "Installing and configuring Sensu 2.0"
linkTitle: "Installation and Configuration"
description: "The Sensu Core installation guide."
weight: 1
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: true
platforms: ["Ubuntu/Debian", "RHEL/CentOS", "Windows", "Docker"]
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: getting-started
---

The Sensu 2.0 binaries are statically linked and can be deployed to any Linux or Windows operating system.
Select a platform from the dropdown above.

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS" >}}

## Install the Sensu Backend
The Sensu backend (sensu-backend) is a single statically linked binary that can be deployed via packages (.deb or .rpm) or [Docker image](#docker). Sensu backend packages are available for Ubuntu/Debian and RHEL/CentOS.

### 1. Install the package

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian" >}}

#### Ubuntu/Debian
Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.deb.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the packages from the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo apt-get install sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "RHEL/CentOS" >}}

#### RHEL/CentOS

Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.rpm.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the Sensu backend and agent packages.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo yum install sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS" >}}

### 2. Create the configuration file

Copy the example backend config file to the default config path.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo cp /etc/sensu/backend.yml.example /etc/sensu/backend.yml
{{< /highlight >}}

The backend config requires `state-dir` to be set. The example config sets `state-dir` to `/var/lib/sensu` by
default.

### 3. Start the service

Start the services using systemd.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo systemctl start sensu-backend
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the services are properly running using the log files.

{{< highlight shell >}}
journalctl -u sensu-backend -f
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: On Ubuntu 14.04, CentOS 6, and RHEL 6, use `sudo /etc/init.d/sensu-backend start` to start the backend and `tail -f /var/log/sensu/sensu-backend.log` to verify it._
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS Windows" >}}

## Agent Installation
The Sensu Agent (sensu-agent) is a single statically linked binary that can be deployed via packages (.deb or .rpm) or Docker image. The agent is available for Ubuntu/Debian, RHEL/CentOS, and Windows.

### 1. Install the package

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian" >}}

#### Ubuntu/Debian

Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.deb.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the packages from the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo apt-get install sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "RHEL/CentOS" >}}
#### RHEL/CentOS

Add the Sensu beta repository.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -s https://packagecloud.io/install/repositories/sensu/beta/script.rpm.sh | sudo bash
{{< /highlight >}}

Install the Sensu backend and agent packages.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo yum install sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Windows" >}}
#### Windows

Download the [Sensu agent binary](https://storage.googleapis.com/sensu-binaries/2.0.0-beta.4-1/windows/amd64/sensu-agent).
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS Windows" >}}

### 2. Create the configuration file

Copy the example agent config file to the default config path.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo cp /etc/sensu/agent.yml.example /etc/sensu/agent.yml
{{< /highlight >}}

In order for the agent to function, it will need to have a list of one or more backends to point to. This can be set
by setting `backend-url` to the ip and port of a Sensu backend.

{{< highlight yaml >}}
backend-url:
  - "ws://127.0.0.1:8081"
{{< /highlight >}}

### 3. Start the service

{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Ubuntu/Debian RHEL/CentOS" >}}
#### Ubuntu/Debian/RHEL/CentOS

Start the services using systemd.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo systemctl start sensu-agent
{{< /highlight >}}

You can verify that the services are properly running using the log files.

{{< highlight shell >}}
journalctl -u sensu-agent -f
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: On Ubuntu 14.04, CentOS 6, and RHEL 6, use `sudo /etc/init.d/sensu-backend start` to start the backend and `tail -f /var/log/sensu/sensu-backend.log` to verify it._
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Windows" >}}
#### Windows

Coming soon.
{{< platformBlockClose >}}

{{< platformBlock "Docker" >}}
## Docker

Sensu 2.0 can be run via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) or [rkt](https://coreos.com/rkt) using the [sensu/sensu](https://hub.docker.com/r/sensu/sensu/) image. When running Sensu from Docker there are a couple of things to take into consideration.

The backend requires 3 exposed ports and persistent storage. This example uses a shared filesystem. Sensu 2.0 is backed by a distributed database, and its storage should be provisioned accordingly.  We recommend local storage or something like Throughput Optimized or Provisioned IOPS EBS if local storage is unavailable.  The 3 exposed ports are:

- 2380: Sensu storage peer listener (only other sensu-backends need access to this port)
- 3000: Sensu dashboard (not yet complete)
- 8080: Sensu API (all users need access to this port)
- 8081: Agent API (all agents need access to this port)

We suggest, but do not require, persistent storage for sensu-backends and sensu-agents. The Sensu Agent will cache runtime assets locally for each check, and the Sensu Backend will cache runtime assets locally for each handler and mutator. This storage should be unique per sensu-backend/sensu-agent process.

### How To

1. Start the sensu-backend process
{{< highlight shell >}}
docker run -v /var/lib/sensu:/var/lib/sensu -d --name sensu-backend -p 2380:2380 \
-p 3000:3000 -p 8080:8080 -p 8081:8081 sensu/sensu:2.0.0-beta.3 sensu-backend start
{{< /highlight >}}

2. Start an agent
In this case, we're starting an agent whose ID is the hostname with the webserver and system subscriptions. This assumes that sensu-backend is running on another host named sensu.yourdomain.com. If you are running these locally on the same system, be sure to add `--link sensu-backend` to your Docker arguments and change the backend URL `--backend-url ws://sensu-backend:8081`.
{{< highlight shell >}}
docker run -v /var/lib/sensu:/var/lib/sensu -d --name sensu-agent \
sensu/sensu:2.0.0-beta.3 sensu-agent start --backend-url ws://sensu.yourdomain.com:8081 \
--subscriptions webserver,system --cache-dir /var/lib/sensu
{{< /highlight >}}

_NOTE: You can configure the sensu-backend and sensu-agent log levels by using the `--log-level` flag on either process. Log levels include `panic`, `fatal`, `error`, `warn`, `info`, and `debug`, defaulting to `warn`._

### sensuctl and Docker

It's best to run sensuctl locally and point it at the exposed API port for your sensu-backend process. The sensuctl utility stores configuration locally, and you'll likely want to persist it across uses. While it can be run from the docker container, doing so may be problematic.
