content/sensu-go/5.4/reference/entities.md, before:

---
title: "Entities"
description: "An entity represents anything that needs to be monitored, including the full range of infrastructure, runtime and application types that compose a complete monitoring environment (from server hardware to serverless functions). Read the reference doc to learn about entities."
weight: 10
version: "5.4"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-go-5.4:
    parent: reference
---

- [How do entities work?](#how-do-entities-work)
- [Proxy entities](#proxy-entities)
- [Managing entity labels](#managing-entity-labels)
  - [Proxy entities](#proxy-entities-managed)
  - [Agent entities](#agent-entities-managed)
- [Entities specification](#entities-specification)
	- [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes)
  - [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
  - [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes)
	- [System attributes](#system-attributes)
	- [Network attributes](#network-attributes)
	- [NetworkInterface attributes](#networkinterface-attributes)
	- [Deregistration attributes](#deregistration-attributes)
- [Examples](#examples)

## How do entities work?

Agent entities are monitoring agents, which are installed and run on every system that needs to be monitored. The entity is responsible for registering the system with the Sensu backend service, sending keepalive messages (the Sensu heartbeat mechanism), and executing monitoring checks. Each entity is a member of one or more `subscriptions` – a list of roles and/or responsibilities assigned to the agent entity (ex: a webserver or a database). Sensu entities will "subscribe" to (or watch for) check requests published by the Sensu server (via the Sensu Transport), execute the corresponding requests locally, and publish the results of the check back to the transport (to be processed by a Sensu server).

An entity represents anything (ex: server, container, network switch) that needs to be monitored, including the full range of infrastructure, runtime and application types that compose a complete monitoring environment (from server hardware to serverless functions).
We call these monitored parts of an infrastructure "entities".
An entity not only provides context to event data (what/where the event is from) but an event's uniqueness is determined by the check name and the name of the entity upon which the check ran.
In addition, an entity can contain system information such as the hostname, OS, platform, and version.

## Proxy entities

Proxy entities (formerly known as proxy clients, "Just-in-time" or "JIT" clients) are dynamically created entities, added to the entity store if an entity does not already exist for a check result. Proxy entity registration differs from keepalive-based registration because the registration event happens while processing a check result (not a keepalive message). Sensu proxy entities allow Sensu to monitor external resources on systems and/or devices where a sensu-agent cannot be installed (such a network switch) using the defined check ProxyEntityName to create a proxy entity for the external resource.

## Managing entity labels

Custom labels let you organize entities into meaningful collections that can be selected using [filters][6] and [tokens][7].

### Proxy entities{#proxy-entities-managed}

For entities with class `proxy`, you can create and manage labels using sensuctl.
For example, to create a proxy entity with a `url` label using sensuctl `create`, create a file called `example.json` with an entity definition that includes `labels`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Entity",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-docs",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": {
      "url": "docs.sensu.io"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "entity_class": "proxy",
    "last_seen": 0,
    "subscriptions": [],
    "system": {
      "network": {
        "interfaces": null
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Then run `sensuctl create` to create the entity based on the definition.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl create --file entity.json
{{< /highlight >}}

To add a label to an existing entity, you can use sensuctl `edit`.
For example, run `sensuctl edit` to add a `url` label to a `sensu-docs` entity.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl edit entity sensu-docs
{{< /highlight >}}

And update the `metadata` scope to include `labels`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Entity",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-docs",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": {
      "url": "docs.sensu.io"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "...": "..."
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Agent entities{#agent-entities-managed}

For entities with class `agent`, you can define entity attributes in the `/etc/sensu/agent.yml` configuration file.
For example, to add a `url` label, open `/etc/sensu/agent.yml` and add configuration for `labels`.

{{< highlight yml >}}
labels:
  url: sensu.docs.io
{{< /highlight >}}

Or using `sensu-agent start` configuration flags.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-agent start --labels url=sensu.docs.io
{{< /highlight >}}

## Entities specification

### Top-level attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the [`sensuctl create`][sc] resource type. Entities should always be of type `Entity`.
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Entity"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the Sensu API group and version. For entities in Sensu backend version 5.4, this attribute should always be `core/v2`.
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "core/v2"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level collection of metadata about the entity, including the `name` and `namespace` as well as custom `labels` and `annotations`. The `metadata` map is always at the top level of the entity definition. This means that in `wrapped-json` and `yaml` formats, the `metadata` scope occurs outside the `spec` scope.  See the [metadata attributes reference][8] for details.
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"metadata": {
  "name": "webserver01",
  "namespace": "default",
  "labels": {
    "region": "us-west-1"
  },
  "annotations": {
    "slack-channel" : "#monitoring"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes the entity [spec attributes][sp].
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"spec": {
    "entity_class": "agent",
    "system": {
      "hostname": "sensu2-centos",
      "os": "linux",
      "platform": "centos",
      "platform_family": "rhel",
      "platform_version": "7.4.1708",
      "network": {
        "interfaces": [
          {
            "name": "lo",
            "addresses": [
              "127.0.0.1/8",
              "::1/128"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s3",
            "mac": "08:00:27:11:ad:d2",
            "addresses": [
              "10.0.2.15/24",
              "fe80::26a5:54ec:cf0d:9704/64"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s8",
            "mac": "08:00:27:bc:be:60",
            "addresses": [
              "172.28.128.3/24",
              "fe80::a00:27ff:febc:be60/64"
            ]
          }
        ]
      },
      "arch": "amd64"
    },
    "subscriptions": [
      "entity:webserver01"
    ],
    "last_seen": 1542667231,
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "user": "agent",
    "redact": [
      "password",
      "passwd",
      "pass",
      "api_key",
      "api_token",
      "access_key",
      "secret_key",
      "private_key",
      "secret"
    ]
  }
{{< /highlight >}}

### Spec attributes

entity_class |     |
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity type, validated with go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2). Class names have special meaning. An entity that runs an agent is of class `agent` and is reserved. Setting the value of `entity_class` to `proxy` creates a proxy entity. For other types of entities, the `entity_class` attribute isn’t required, and you can use it to indicate an arbitrary type of entity (like `lambda` or `switch`).
required     | true
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"entity_class": "agent"{{< /highlight >}}

subscriptions| 
-------------|------ 
description  | A list of subscription names for the entity. The entity by default has an entity-specific subscription, in the format of `entity:{name}` where `name` is the entity's hostname.
required     | false 
type         | array 
default      | The entity-specific subscription.
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": ["web", "prod", "entity:example-entity"]{{< /highlight >}}

system       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | System information about the entity, such as operating system and platform.
required     | false 
type         | [System][1] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "system": {
    "hostname": "example-hostname",
    "os": "linux",
    "platform": "ubuntu",
    "platform_family": "debian",
    "platform_version": "16.04",
    "network": {
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "arch": "amd64"
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

last_seen    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | Timestamp the entity was last seen, in epoch time. 
required     | false 
type         | integer 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"last_seen": 1522798317 {{< /highlight >}}


deregister   | 
-------------|------ 
description  | If the entity should be removed when it stops sending keepalive messages. 
required     | false 
type         | boolean 
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"deregister": false {{< /highlight >}}

deregistration  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | A map containing a handler name, for use when an entity is deregistered. 
required     | false 
type         | [Deregistration][2] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "deregistration": {
    "handler": "email-handler"
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

redact       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | List of items to redact from log messages. If a value is provided, it overwrites the default list of items to be redacted.
required     | false 
type         | array 
default      | ["password", "passwd", "pass", "api_key", "api_token", "access_key", "secret_key", "private_key", "secret"]
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "redact": [
    "extra_secret_tokens"
  ]
}{{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

| name       |      |
-------------|------
description  | The unique name of the entity, validated with Go regex `\A[\w\.\-]+\z`.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "example-hostname"{{< /highlight >}}

| namespace  |      |
-------------|------
description  | The [Sensu RBAC namespace][5] that this entity belongs to.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | `default`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "production"{{< /highlight >}}

| labels     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Custom attributes to include with event data, which can be queried like regular attributes. You can use labels to organize entities into meaningful collections that can be selected using [filters][6] and [tokens][7].
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys can contain only letters, numbers, and underscores, but must start with a letter. Values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"labels": {
  "environment": "development",
  "region": "us-west-2"
}{{< /highlight >}}

| annotations |     |
-------------|------
description  | Arbitrary, non-identifying metadata to include with event data. In contrast to labels, annotations are _not_ used internally by Sensu and cannot be used to identify entities. You can use annotations to add data that helps people or external tools interacting with Sensu.
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys and values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}} "annotations": {
  "managed-by": "ops",
  "slack-channel": "#monitoring",
  "playbook": "www.example.url"
}{{< /highlight >}}

### System attributes

hostname     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The hostname of the entity. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"hostname": "example-hostname" {{< /highlight >}}

os           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"os": "linux" {{< /highlight >}}

platform     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system distribution. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform": "ubuntu" {{< /highlight >}}

platform_family     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system family. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_family": "debian" {{< /highlight >}}

platform_version     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system version. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_version": "16.04" {{< /highlight >}}

network     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's network interface list. 
required     | false 
type         | [Network][3] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "network": {
    "interfaces": [
      {
        "name": "lo",
        "addresses": [
          "127.0.0.1/8",
          "::1/128"
        ]
      },
      {
        "name": "eth0",
        "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
        "addresses": [
          "93.184.216.34/24",
          "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

arch         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's system architecture. This value is determined by the Go binary architecture, as a function of runtime.GOARCH. An `amd` system running a `386` binary will report the arch as `386`.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"arch": "amd64" {{< /highlight >}}

### Network attributes

network_interface         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of network interfaces available on the entity, with their associated MAC and IP addresses. 
required     | false 
type         | array [NetworkInterface][4] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "interfaces": [
    {
      "name": "lo",
      "addresses": [
        "127.0.0.1/8",
        "::1/128"
      ]
    },
    {
      "name": "eth0",
      "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
      "addresses": [
        "93.184.216.34/24",
        "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
      ]
    }
  ]
}{{< /highlight >}}

### NetworkInterface attributes

name         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface name.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "eth0"{{< /highlight >}}

mac          | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface's MAC address.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c"{{< /highlight >}}

addresses    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of IP addresses for the interface.
required     | false 
type         | array 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}} "addresses": ["93.184.216.34/24", "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"]{{< /highlight >}}

### Deregistration attributes

handler      | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The name of the handler to be called when an entity is deregistered.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handler": "email-handler"{{< /highlight >}}

## Examples

### Entity definition

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Entity",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "webserver01",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "spec": {
    "entity_class": "agent",
    "system": {
      "hostname": "sensu2-centos",
      "os": "linux",
      "platform": "centos",
      "platform_family": "rhel",
      "platform_version": "7.4.1708",
      "network": {
        "interfaces": [
          {
            "name": "lo",
            "addresses": [
              "127.0.0.1/8",
              "::1/128"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s3",
            "mac": "08:00:27:11:ad:d2",
            "addresses": [
              "10.0.2.15/24",
              "fe80::26a5:54ec:cf0d:9704/64"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s8",
            "mac": "08:00:27:bc:be:60",
            "addresses": [
              "172.28.128.3/24",
              "fe80::a00:27ff:febc:be60/64"
            ]
          }
        ]
      },
      "arch": "amd64"
    },
    "subscriptions": [
      "entity:webserver01"
    ],
    "last_seen": 1542667231,
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "user": "agent",
    "redact": [
      "password",
      "passwd",
      "pass",
      "api_key",
      "api_token",
      "access_key",
      "secret_key",
      "private_key",
      "secret"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: #system-attributes
[2]: #deregistration-attributes
[3]: #network-attributes
[4]: #networkinterface-attributes
[5]: ../rbac#namespaces
[6]: ../filters
[7]: ../tokens
[8]: #metadata-attributes
[sc]: ../../sensuctl/reference#creating-resources
[sp]: #spec-attributes

Commit message:

Assorted fixups (#1429)
* make the migration guide more discoverable

* fix typos

* add all-namespaces flag

* add user attribute

* fix types

content/sensu-go/5.4/reference/entities.md, after:

---
title: "Entities"
description: "An entity represents anything that needs to be monitored, including the full range of infrastructure, runtime and application types that compose a complete monitoring environment (from server hardware to serverless functions). Read the reference doc to learn about entities."
weight: 10
version: "5.4"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-go-5.4:
    parent: reference
---

- [How do entities work?](#how-do-entities-work)
- [Proxy entities](#proxy-entities)
- [Managing entity labels](#managing-entity-labels)
  - [Proxy entities](#proxy-entities-managed)
  - [Agent entities](#agent-entities-managed)
- [Entities specification](#entities-specification)
	- [Top-level attributes](#top-level-attributes)
  - [Spec attributes](#spec-attributes)
  - [Metadata attributes](#metadata-attributes)
	- [System attributes](#system-attributes)
	- [Network attributes](#network-attributes)
	- [NetworkInterface attributes](#networkinterface-attributes)
	- [Deregistration attributes](#deregistration-attributes)
- [Examples](#examples)

## How do entities work?

Agent entities are monitoring agents, which are installed and run on every system that needs to be monitored. The entity is responsible for registering the system with the Sensu backend service, sending keepalive messages (the Sensu heartbeat mechanism), and executing monitoring checks. Each entity is a member of one or more `subscriptions` – a list of roles and/or responsibilities assigned to the agent entity (ex: a webserver or a database). Sensu entities will "subscribe" to (or watch for) check requests published by the Sensu server (via the Sensu Transport), execute the corresponding requests locally, and publish the results of the check back to the transport (to be processed by a Sensu server).

An entity represents anything (ex: server, container, network switch) that needs to be monitored, including the full range of infrastructure, runtime and application types that compose a complete monitoring environment (from server hardware to serverless functions).
We call these monitored parts of an infrastructure "entities".
An entity not only provides context to event data (what/where the event is from) but an event's uniqueness is determined by the check name and the name of the entity upon which the check ran.
In addition, an entity can contain system information such as the hostname, OS, platform, and version.

## Proxy entities

Proxy entities (formerly known as proxy clients, "Just-in-time" or "JIT" clients) are dynamically created entities, added to the entity store if an entity does not already exist for a check result. Proxy entity registration differs from keepalive-based registration because the registration event happens while processing a check result (not a keepalive message). Sensu proxy entities allow Sensu to monitor external resources on systems and/or devices where a sensu-agent cannot be installed (such a network switch) using the defined check ProxyEntityName to create a proxy entity for the external resource.

## Managing entity labels

Custom labels let you organize entities into meaningful collections that can be selected using [filters][6] and [tokens][7].

### Proxy entities{#proxy-entities-managed}

For entities with class `proxy`, you can create and manage labels using sensuctl.
For example, to create a proxy entity with a `url` label using sensuctl `create`, create a file called `example.json` with an entity definition that includes `labels`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Entity",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-docs",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": {
      "url": "docs.sensu.io"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "entity_class": "proxy",
    "last_seen": 0,
    "subscriptions": [],
    "system": {
      "network": {
        "interfaces": null
      }
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

Then run `sensuctl create` to create the entity based on the definition.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl create --file entity.json
{{< /highlight >}}

To add a label to an existing entity, you can use sensuctl `edit`.
For example, run `sensuctl edit` to add a `url` label to a `sensu-docs` entity.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl edit entity sensu-docs
{{< /highlight >}}

And update the `metadata` scope to include `labels`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Entity",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-docs",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": {
      "url": "docs.sensu.io"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "...": "..."
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Agent entities{#agent-entities-managed}

For entities with class `agent`, you can define entity attributes in the `/etc/sensu/agent.yml` configuration file.
For example, to add a `url` label, open `/etc/sensu/agent.yml` and add configuration for `labels`.

{{< highlight yml >}}
labels:
  url: sensu.docs.io
{{< /highlight >}}

Or using `sensu-agent start` configuration flags.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-agent start --labels url=sensu.docs.io
{{< /highlight >}}

## Entities specification

### Top-level attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the [`sensuctl create`][sc] resource type. Entities should always be of type `Entity`.
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Entity"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the Sensu API group and version. For entities in Sensu backend version 5.4, this attribute should always be `core/v2`.
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "core/v2"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level collection of metadata about the entity, including the `name` and `namespace` as well as custom `labels` and `annotations`. The `metadata` map is always at the top level of the entity definition. This means that in `wrapped-json` and `yaml` formats, the `metadata` scope occurs outside the `spec` scope.  See the [metadata attributes reference][8] for details.
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"metadata": {
  "name": "webserver01",
  "namespace": "default",
  "labels": {
    "region": "us-west-1"
  },
  "annotations": {
    "slack-channel" : "#monitoring"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes the entity [spec attributes][sp].
required     | Required for entity definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}
"spec": {
    "entity_class": "agent",
    "system": {
      "hostname": "sensu2-centos",
      "os": "linux",
      "platform": "centos",
      "platform_family": "rhel",
      "platform_version": "7.4.1708",
      "network": {
        "interfaces": [
          {
            "name": "lo",
            "addresses": [
              "127.0.0.1/8",
              "::1/128"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s3",
            "mac": "08:00:27:11:ad:d2",
            "addresses": [
              "10.0.2.15/24",
              "fe80::26a5:54ec:cf0d:9704/64"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s8",
            "mac": "08:00:27:bc:be:60",
            "addresses": [
              "172.28.128.3/24",
              "fe80::a00:27ff:febc:be60/64"
            ]
          }
        ]
      },
      "arch": "amd64"
    },
    "subscriptions": [
      "entity:webserver01"
    ],
    "last_seen": 1542667231,
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "user": "agent",
    "redact": [
      "password",
      "passwd",
      "pass",
      "api_key",
      "api_token",
      "access_key",
      "secret_key",
      "private_key",
      "secret"
    ]
  }
{{< /highlight >}}

### Spec attributes

entity_class |     |
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity type, validated with go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2). Class names have special meaning. An entity that runs an agent is of class `agent` and is reserved. Setting the value of `entity_class` to `proxy` creates a proxy entity. For other types of entities, the `entity_class` attribute isn’t required, and you can use it to indicate an arbitrary type of entity (like `lambda` or `switch`).
required     | true
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"entity_class": "agent"{{< /highlight >}}

subscriptions| 
-------------|------ 
description  | A list of subscription names for the entity. The entity by default has an entity-specific subscription, in the format of `entity:{name}` where `name` is the entity's hostname.
required     | false 
type         | array 
default      | The entity-specific subscription.
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": ["web", "prod", "entity:example-entity"]{{< /highlight >}}

system       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | System information about the entity, such as operating system and platform. See the [system attributes][1] for more information.
required     | false
type         | map
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "system": {
    "hostname": "example-hostname",
    "os": "linux",
    "platform": "ubuntu",
    "platform_family": "debian",
    "platform_version": "16.04",
    "network": {
      "interfaces": [
        {
          "name": "lo",
          "addresses": [
            "127.0.0.1/8",
            "::1/128"
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "eth0",
          "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
          "addresses": [
            "93.184.216.34/24",
            "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "arch": "amd64"
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

last_seen    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | Timestamp the entity was last seen, in seconds since the Unix epoch. 
required     | false 
type         | integer 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"last_seen": 1522798317 {{< /highlight >}}


deregister   | 
-------------|------ 
description  | If the entity should be removed when it stops sending keepalive messages. 
required     | false 
type         | boolean 
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"deregister": false {{< /highlight >}}

deregistration  | 
-------------|------ 
description  | A map containing a handler name, for use when an entity is deregistered. See the [deregistration attributes][2] for more information.
required     | false
type         | map
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "deregistration": {
    "handler": "email-handler"
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

redact       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | List of items to redact from log messages. If a value is provided, it overwrites the default list of items to be redacted.
required     | false 
type         | array 
default      | ["password", "passwd", "pass", "api_key", "api_token", "access_key", "secret_key", "private_key", "secret"]
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "redact": [
    "extra_secret_tokens"
  ]
}{{< /highlight >}}

| user |      |
--------------|------
description   | Sensu [RBAC](../rbac) username used by the entity. Agent entities require get, list, create, update, and delete permissions for events across all namespaces.
type          | String
default       | `agent`
example       | {{< highlight shell >}}
"user": "agent"
{{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

| name       |      |
-------------|------
description  | The unique name of the entity, validated with Go regex `\A[\w\.\-]+\z`.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "example-hostname"{{< /highlight >}}

| namespace  |      |
-------------|------
description  | The [Sensu RBAC namespace][5] that this entity belongs to.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | `default`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "production"{{< /highlight >}}

| labels     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Custom attributes to include with event data, which can be queried like regular attributes. You can use labels to organize entities into meaningful collections that can be selected using [filters][6] and [tokens][7].
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys can contain only letters, numbers, and underscores, but must start with a letter. Values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"labels": {
  "environment": "development",
  "region": "us-west-2"
}{{< /highlight >}}

| annotations |     |
-------------|------
description  | Arbitrary, non-identifying metadata to include with event data. In contrast to labels, annotations are _not_ used internally by Sensu and cannot be used to identify entities. You can use annotations to add data that helps people or external tools interacting with Sensu.
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys and values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}} "annotations": {
  "managed-by": "ops",
  "slack-channel": "#monitoring",
  "playbook": "www.example.url"
}{{< /highlight >}}

### System attributes

hostname     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The hostname of the entity. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"hostname": "example-hostname" {{< /highlight >}}

os           | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"os": "linux" {{< /highlight >}}

platform     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system distribution. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform": "ubuntu" {{< /highlight >}}

platform_family     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system family. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_family": "debian" {{< /highlight >}}

platform_version     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's operating system version. 
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"platform_version": "16.04" {{< /highlight >}}

network     | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's network interface list. See the [network attributes][3] for more information.
required     | false
type         | map
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "network": {
    "interfaces": [
      {
        "name": "lo",
        "addresses": [
          "127.0.0.1/8",
          "::1/128"
        ]
      },
      {
        "name": "eth0",
        "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
        "addresses": [
          "93.184.216.34/24",
          "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

arch         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The entity's system architecture. This value is determined by the Go binary architecture, as a function of runtime.GOARCH. An `amd` system running a `386` binary will report the arch as `386`.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"arch": "amd64" {{< /highlight >}}

### Network attributes

network_interface         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of network interfaces available on the entity, with their associated MAC and IP addresses. 
required     | false 
type         | array [NetworkInterface][4] 
example      | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "interfaces": [
    {
      "name": "lo",
      "addresses": [
        "127.0.0.1/8",
        "::1/128"
      ]
    },
    {
      "name": "eth0",
      "mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c",
      "addresses": [
        "93.184.216.34/24",
        "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"
      ]
    }
  ]
}{{< /highlight >}}

### NetworkInterface attributes

name         | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface name.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "eth0"{{< /highlight >}}

mac          | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The network interface's MAC address.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"mac": "52:54:00:20:1b:3c"{{< /highlight >}}

addresses    | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The list of IP addresses for the interface.
required     | false 
type         | array 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}} "addresses": ["93.184.216.34/24", "2606:2800:220:1:248:1893:25c8:1946/10"]{{< /highlight >}}

### Deregistration attributes

handler      | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The name of the handler to be called when an entity is deregistered.
required     | false 
type         | string 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handler": "email-handler"{{< /highlight >}}

## Examples

### Entity definition

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Entity",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "webserver01",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "spec": {
    "entity_class": "agent",
    "system": {
      "hostname": "sensu2-centos",
      "os": "linux",
      "platform": "centos",
      "platform_family": "rhel",
      "platform_version": "7.4.1708",
      "network": {
        "interfaces": [
          {
            "name": "lo",
            "addresses": [
              "127.0.0.1/8",
              "::1/128"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s3",
            "mac": "08:00:27:11:ad:d2",
            "addresses": [
              "10.0.2.15/24",
              "fe80::26a5:54ec:cf0d:9704/64"
            ]
          },
          {
            "name": "enp0s8",
            "mac": "08:00:27:bc:be:60",
            "addresses": [
              "172.28.128.3/24",
              "fe80::a00:27ff:febc:be60/64"
            ]
          }
        ]
      },
      "arch": "amd64"
    },
    "subscriptions": [
      "entity:webserver01"
    ],
    "last_seen": 1542667231,
    "deregister": false,
    "deregistration": {},
    "user": "agent",
    "redact": [
      "password",
      "passwd",
      "pass",
      "api_key",
      "api_token",
      "access_key",
      "secret_key",
      "private_key",
      "secret"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: #system-attributes
[2]: #deregistration-attributes
[3]: #network-attributes
[4]: #networkinterface-attributes
[5]: ../rbac#namespaces
[6]: ../filters
[7]: ../tokens
[8]: #metadata-attributes
[sc]: ../../sensuctl/reference#creating-resources
[sp]: #spec-attributes
