content/sensu-go/5.7/api/filters.md, before:

---
title: "Filters API"
description: "The filters API provides HTTP access to filter data. Here’s a reference for the filters API in Sensu Go, including examples for returning lists of filters, creating Sensu filters, and more. Read on for the full reference."
version: "5.7"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.7:
    parent: api
---

- [The `/filters` API endpoint](#the-filters-api-endpoint)
	- [`/filters` (GET)](#filters-get)
	- [`/filters` (POST)](#filters-post)
- [The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint](#the-filtersfilter-api-endpoint)
	- [`/filters/:filter` (GET)](#filtersfilter-get)
  - [`/filters/:filter` (PUT)](#filtersfilter-put)
  - [`/filters/:filter` (DELETE)](#filtersfilter-delete)

## The `/filters` API endpoint

### `/filters` (GET)

The `/filters` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [filter][1] data.

#### EXAMPLE {#filters-get-example}

The following example demonstrates a request to the `/filters` API, resulting in
a JSON Array containing [filter definitions][1].

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
[
  {
    "metadata": {
      "name": "state_change_only",
      "namespace": "default",
      "labels": null,
      "annotations": null
    },
    "action": "allow",
    "expressions": [
      "event.check.occurrences == 1"
    ],
    "runtime_assets": []
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#filters-get-specification}

/filters (GET)  | 
---------------|------
description    | Returns the list of filters.
example url    | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters
pagination     | This endpoint supports pagination using the `limit` and `continue` query parameters. See the [API overview](../overview#pagination) for details.
response type  | Array
response codes | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output         | {{< highlight shell >}}
[
  {
    "metadata": {
      "name": "state_change_only",
      "namespace": "default",
      "labels": null,
      "annotations": null
    },
    "action": "allow",
    "expressions": [
      "event.check.occurrences == 1"
    ],
    "runtime_assets": []
  },
  {
    "metadata": {
      "name": "development_filter",
      "namespace": "default",
      "labels": null,
      "annotations": null
    },
    "action": "deny",
    "expressions": [
      "event.entity.metadata.namespace == 'production'"
    ],
    "runtime_assets": []
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/filters` (POST)

/filters (POST) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create a Sensu filter.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "development_filter",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "deny",
  "expressions": [
    "event.entity.metadata.namespace == 'production'"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

## The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint {#the-filtersfilter-api-endpoint}

### `/filters/:filter` (GET) {#filtersfilter-get}

The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [filter data][1] for specific `:filter` definitions, by filter `name`.

#### EXAMPLE {#filtersfilter-get-example}

In the following example, querying the `/filters/:filter` API returns a JSON Map
containing the requested [`:filter` definition][1] (in this example: for the `:filter` named
`state_change_only`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/state_change_only -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "state_change_only",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "allow",
  "expressions": [
    "event.check.occurrences == 1"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#filtersfilter-get-specification}

/filters/:filter (GET) | 
---------------------|------
description          | Returns a filter.
example url          | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/state_change_only
response type        | Map
response codes       | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li> **Missing**: 404 (Not Found)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output               | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "state_change_only",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "allow",
  "expressions": [
    "event.check.occurrences == 1"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/filters/:filter` (PUT) {#filtersfilter-put}

#### API Specification {#filtersfilter-put-specification}

/filters/:filter (PUT) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create or update a Sensu filter.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/development_filter
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "development_filter",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "deny",
  "expressions": [
    "event.entity.metadata.namespace == 'production'"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 201 (Created)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

### `/filters/:filter` (DELETE) {#filtersfilter-delete}

#### API Specification {#filtersfilter-delete-specification}

/filters/:filter (DELETE) | 
--------------------------|------
description               | Removes a filter from Sensu given the filter name.
example url               | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/state_change_only
response codes            | <ul><li>**Success**: 202 (Accepted)</li><li>**Missing**: 404 (Not Found)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

[1]: ../../reference/filters

Commit message:

API and assorted fixups (#1451)
* use SENSU_TOKEN, add delete examples

* correct versions and policy

* style fixups

* document noninteractive configuration

content/sensu-go/5.7/api/filters.md, after:

---
title: "Filters API"
description: "The filters API provides HTTP access to filter data. Here’s a reference for the filters API in Sensu Go, including examples for returning lists of filters, creating Sensu filters, and more. Read on for the full reference."
version: "5.7"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.7:
    parent: api
---

- [The `/filters` API endpoint](#the-filters-api-endpoint)
	- [`/filters` (GET)](#filters-get)
	- [`/filters` (POST)](#filters-post)
- [The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint](#the-filtersfilter-api-endpoint)
	- [`/filters/:filter` (GET)](#filtersfilter-get)
  - [`/filters/:filter` (PUT)](#filtersfilter-put)
  - [`/filters/:filter` (DELETE)](#filtersfilter-delete)

## The `/filters` API endpoint

### `/filters` (GET)

The `/filters` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [filter][1] data.

#### EXAMPLE {#filters-get-example}

The following example demonstrates a request to the `/filters` API, resulting in
a JSON Array containing [filter definitions][1].

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
[
  {
    "metadata": {
      "name": "state_change_only",
      "namespace": "default",
      "labels": null,
      "annotations": null
    },
    "action": "allow",
    "expressions": [
      "event.check.occurrences == 1"
    ],
    "runtime_assets": []
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#filters-get-specification}

/filters (GET)  | 
---------------|------
description    | Returns the list of filters.
example url    | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters
pagination     | This endpoint supports pagination using the `limit` and `continue` query parameters. See the [API overview](../overview#pagination) for details.
response type  | Array
response codes | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output         | {{< highlight shell >}}
[
  {
    "metadata": {
      "name": "state_change_only",
      "namespace": "default",
      "labels": null,
      "annotations": null
    },
    "action": "allow",
    "expressions": [
      "event.check.occurrences == 1"
    ],
    "runtime_assets": []
  },
  {
    "metadata": {
      "name": "development_filter",
      "namespace": "default",
      "labels": null,
      "annotations": null
    },
    "action": "deny",
    "expressions": [
      "event.entity.metadata.namespace == 'production'"
    ],
    "runtime_assets": []
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/filters` (POST)

/filters (POST) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create a Sensu filter.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "development_filter",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "deny",
  "expressions": [
    "event.entity.metadata.namespace == 'production'"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

## The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint {#the-filtersfilter-api-endpoint}

### `/filters/:filter` (GET) {#filtersfilter-get}

The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [filter data][1] for specific `:filter` definitions, by filter `name`.

#### EXAMPLE {#filtersfilter-get-example}

In the following example, querying the `/filters/:filter` API returns a JSON Map
containing the requested [`:filter` definition][1] (in this example: for the `:filter` named
`state_change_only`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/state_change_only -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN"
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "state_change_only",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "allow",
  "expressions": [
    "event.check.occurrences == 1"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#filtersfilter-get-specification}

/filters/:filter (GET) | 
---------------------|------
description          | Returns a filter.
example url          | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/state_change_only
response type        | Map
response codes       | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li> **Missing**: 404 (Not Found)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output               | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "state_change_only",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "allow",
  "expressions": [
    "event.check.occurrences == 1"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/filters/:filter` (PUT) {#filtersfilter-put}

#### API Specification {#filtersfilter-put-specification}

/filters/:filter (PUT) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create or update a Sensu filter.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/development_filter
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "metadata": {
    "name": "development_filter",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": null,
    "annotations": null
  },
  "action": "deny",
  "expressions": [
    "event.entity.metadata.namespace == 'production'"
  ],
  "runtime_assets": []
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 201 (Created)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

### `/filters/:filter` (DELETE) {#filtersfilter-delete}

The `/filters/:filter` API endpoint provides HTTP DELETE access to delete a filter from Sensu given the filter name.

### EXAMPLE {#filtersfilter-delete-example}
The following example shows a request to delete the filter `production-only`, resulting in a successful HTTP 204 No Content response.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl -X DELETE \
-H "Authorization: Bearer $SENSU_TOKEN" \
http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/production-only

HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#filtersfilter-delete-specification}

/filters/:filter (DELETE) | 
--------------------------|------
description               | Removes a filter from Sensu given the filter name.
example url               | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/filters/production-only
response codes            | <ul><li>**Success**: 202 (Accepted)</li><li>**Missing**: 404 (Not Found)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

[1]: ../../reference/filters
