content/sensu-go/5.8/getting-started/get-started.md, before:

---
title: "Get started with Sensu"
linkTitle: "Get Started with Sensu"
description: "It’s easy to get started with Sensu Go. Download the sandbox, install our flexible monitoring software, and try our enterprise features. Get started with Sensu today."
version: "5.8"
weight: 1
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.8:
    parent: getting-started
---

### Try the sandbox

The sandbox is the best place to get started with Sensu and try out new features.

- [Download the sandbox and learn Sensu Go][7]
- [See more sandbox lessons][1]

### Install Sensu Go

Sensu Go is the flexible monitoring event pipeline, designed for container-based and multi-cloud infrastructures.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]
- [Discover Sensu assets][6]

### Try enterprise features

Sensu Inc. offers support packages for Sensu Go as well as license-activated features designed for enterprises.
Follow the instructions for [installing Sensu Go][2], then [contact Sales][4] for a trial license key to unlock enterprise features.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]
- [Contact the sales team for a free trial][4]
- [Get started with enterprise features in Sensu Go][5]

[1]: ../sandbox
[2]: ../../installation/install-sensu
[3]: https://sensu.io/products/enterprise
[4]: https://sensu.io/sales/
[5]: ../enterprise
[6]: https://bonsai.sensu.io
[7]: ../learn-sensu

Commit message:

Add messaging for free, licensed, and OSS tiers (#1518)
* add free tier messaging

* add free tier clarification

* copy to all versions

content/sensu-go/5.8/getting-started/get-started.md, after:

---
title: "Get started with Sensu"
linkTitle: "Get Started with Sensu"
description: "Sensu is the industry leading solution for multi-cloud monitoring at scale. The Sensu monitoring event pipeline empowers businesses to automate their monitoring workflows and gain deep visibility into their multi-cloud environments. Get started now and feel the #monitoringlove."
version: "5.8"
weight: 1
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.8:
    parent: getting-started
---

### Learn Sensu in 15 minutes

Create your first monitoring event pipeline using a local development environment pre-installed with the essential Sensu stack.

- [Download the sandbox and learn Sensu Go][7]
- [See more sandbox lessons][1]
- [Join the community][8]

### Install Sensu Go (free tier)

Sensu Go is the flexible monitoring event pipeline, designed for container-based and multi-cloud infrastructures.
Get started with the free tier by installing an official Sensu distribution.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]
- [Discover Sensu assets][6]
- [Learn about license-activated features][12]

### Monitor at scale (licensed tier)

Sensu Inc. offers support packages for Sensu Go as well as license-activated features designed for monitoring at scale.

- [Learn about license-activated features][12]
- [Contact the sales team for a free trial][4]
- [Activate your Sensu license][5]

### Build from source (OSS tier)
Sensu Go's core is open source software, freely available under an MIT license.

- [Visit Sensu Go on GitHub][10]
- [Learn about OSS-tier features][12]
- [Build from source][11]

[1]: ../sandbox
[2]: ../../installation/install-sensu
[3]: https://sensu.io/products/enterprise
[4]: https://sensu.io/sales/
[5]: ../enterprise
[6]: https://bonsai.sensu.io
[7]: ../learn-sensu
[8]: https://sensu.io/community
[9]: ../../reference/license
[10]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go
[11]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#building
[12]: https://sensu.io/products
