content/sensu-go/5.9/reference/assets.md, before:

---
title: "Assets"
linkTitle: "Assets"
description: "Assets are shareable, reusable packages that make it easy to deploy Sensu plugins. You can use assets to provide the plugins, libraries, and runtimes you need to create automated monitoring workflows. Read the reference doc to learn about assets."
weight: 10
version: "5.9"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-go-5.9:
    parent: reference
---

- [What is an asset?](#what-is-an-asset)
- [How do assets work?](#how-do-assets-work)
- [Asset format specification](#asset-format-specification)
- [Asset specification](#asset-specification)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Sharing an asset on Bonsai](#sharing-an-asset-on-bonsai)

You can discover, download, and share assets using [Bonsai, the Sensu asset index][16].
Read the [guide to using assets][23] to get started.

## What is an asset?
Assets are shareable, reusable packages that make it easy to deploy Sensu [plugins](/plugins/latest/reference).
You can use assets to provide the plugins, libraries, and runtimes you need to automate your monitoring workflows.
Sensu supports runtime assets for [checks][6], [filters][7], [mutators][8], and [handlers][9].

_NOTE: Assets are not required to use Sensu Go in production. Sensu plugins can still be installed using the [sensu-install][32] tool or a [configuration management][33] solution._

## How do assets work?
Assets can be executed by the backend (for handler, filter, and mutator assets), or
by the agent (for check assets).
At runtime, the backend or agent sequentially fetches assets that appear in the `runtime_assets` attribute of the handler, filter, mutator or check being executed, verifies the sha512 checksum, and unpacks them into the backend or agent's local cache directory.
The directory path of each asset defined in `runtime_assets` is then injected into the `PATH` before the handler, filter, mutator or check `command` is executed.
Subsequent handler, filter, mutator or check executions look for the asset in the local cache and ensure the contents match the configured checksum.
The backend or agent's local cache path can be set using the `--cache-dir` flag.

You can find a use case using a Sensu resource (a check) and an asset in this [example asset with a check][31].

## Asset format specification

Sensu expects an asset to be a tar archive (optionally gzipped) containing one or more executables within a bin folder.
Any scripts or executables should be within a `bin/` folder within in the archive.
See the [Sensu Go Plugin template][28] for an example asset and Bonsai configuration.

The following are injected into the execution context:

- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/bin` is injected into the `PATH` environment variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/lib` is injected into the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment
  variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/include` is injected into the `CPATH` environment variable.

### Default cache directory

system  | sensu-backend                               | sensu-agent
--------|---------------------------------------------|-------------
Linux   | `/var/cache/sensu/sensu-backend`            | `/var/cache/sensu/sensu-agent`
Windows | N/A                                         | `C:\ProgramData\sensu\cache\sensu-agent`

If the requested asset is not in the local cache, it is downloaded from the asset
URL. The Sensu backend does not currently provide any storage for assets; they
are expected to be retrieved over HTTP or HTTPS.

### Example structure
{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-example-handler_1.0.0_linux_amd64
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
└── bin
  └── my-check.sh
└── lib
└── include
{{< /highlight >}}

## Asset specification

### Top-level attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the [`sensuctl create`][sc] resource type. Assets should always be of type `Asset`.
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Asset"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the Sensu API group and version. For assets in Sensu backend version 5.9, this attribute should always be `core/v2`.
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "core/v2"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level collection of metadata about the asset, including the `name` and `namespace` as well as custom `labels` and `annotations`. The `metadata` map is always at the top level of the asset definition. This means that in `wrapped-json` and `yaml` formats, the `metadata` scope occurs outside the `spec` scope.  See the [metadata attributes reference][5] for details.
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"metadata": {
  "name": "check_script",
  "namespace": "default",
  "labels": {
    "region": "us-west-1"
  },
  "annotations": {
    "slack-channel" : "#monitoring"
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes the asset [spec attributes][sp].
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"spec": {
  "url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b",
  "filters": [
    "entity.system.os == 'linux'",
    "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
  ]
}{{< /highlight >}}

### Spec attributes

url          | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The URL location of the asset. 
required     | true
type         | String 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz"{{< /highlight >}}

sha512       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The checksum of the asset. 
required     | true
type         | String 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"sha512": "4f926bf4328..."{{< /highlight >}}

filters      | 
-------------|------ 
description  | A set of [Sensu query expressions][1] used to determine if the asset should be installed. If multiple expressions are included, each expression must return true in order for Sensu to install the asset.<br><br>Filters for _check_ assets should match agent entity platforms, while filters for _handler and filter_ assets should match your Sensu backend platform. You can create asset filter expressions using any supported [entity system attributes][10], including `os`, `arch`, `platform`, and `platform_family`. _PRO TIP: Asset filters let you reuse checks across platforms safely. Assign assets for multiple platforms to a single check, and rely on asset filters to ensure that only the appropriate asset is installed on each agent._
required     | false 
type         | Array 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"filters": ["entity.system.os=='linux'", "entity.system.arch=='amd64'"] {{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

name         |      |
-------------|------ 
description  | The unique name of the asset, validated with Go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2).
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "check_script"{{< /highlight >}}

| namespace  |      |
-------------|------
description  | The [Sensu RBAC namespace][2] that this asset belongs to.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | `default`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "production"{{< /highlight >}}

| labels     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Custom attributes you can use to create meaningful collections that can be selected with [API filtering][api-filter] and [sensuctl filtering][sensuctl-filter]. Overusing labels can impact Sensu's internal performance, so we recommend moving complex, non-identifying metadata to annotations.
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys can contain only letters, numbers, and underscores, but must start with a letter. Values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"labels": {
  "environment": "development",
  "region": "us-west-2"
}{{< /highlight >}}

| annotations | |
-------------|------
description  | Non-identifying metadata that's meaningful to people interacting with Sensu.<br><br>In contrast to labels, annotations cannot be used in [API filtering][api-filter] or [sensuctl filtering][sensuctl-filter] and do not impact Sensu's internal performance.
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys and values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}} "annotations": {
  "managed-by": "ops",
  "playbook": "www.example.url"
}{{< /highlight >}}

## Examples

### Minimum required asset attributes

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
type: Asset
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: check_script
  namespace: default
spec:
  sha512: 4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b
  url: http://example.com/asset.tar.gz
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Asset",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "check_script",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

### Asset definition

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
type: Asset
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  annotations:
    slack-channel: '#monitoring'
  labels:
    region: us-west-1
  name: check_script
  namespace: default
spec:
  filters:
  - entity.system.os == 'linux'
  - entity.system.arch == 'amd64'
  sha512: 4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b
  url: http://example.com/asset.tar.gz
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Asset",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "check_script",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": {
      "region": "us-west-1"
    },
    "annotations": {
      "slack-channel" : "#monitoring"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b",
    "filters": [
      "entity.system.os == 'linux'",
      "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

### Example asset with a check

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Asset
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: sensu-prometheus-collector_linux_amd64
spec:
  url: https://assets.bonsai.sensu.io/ef812286f59de36a40e51178024b81c69666e1b7/sensu-prometheus-collector_1.1.6_linux_amd64.tar.gz
  sha512: a70056ca02662fbf2999460f6be93f174c7e09c5a8b12efc7cc42ce1ccb5570ee0f328a2dd8223f506df3b5972f7f521728f7bdd6abf9f6ca2234d690aeb3808
  filters:
  - entity.system.os == 'linux'
  - entity.system.arch == 'amd64'
---
type: CheckConfig
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: prometheus_collector
  namespace: default
spec:
  command: "sensu-prometheus-collector -prom-url http://localhost:9090 -prom-query up"
  interval: 10
  publish: true
  output_metric_handlers:
  - influxdb
  output_metric_format: influxdb_line
  runtime_assets:
  - sensu-prometheus-collector_linux_amd64
  subscriptions:
  - system
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight wrapped-json >}}
{
  "type": "Asset",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-email-handler_linux_amd64"
  },
  "spec": {
    "url": "https://assets.bonsai.sensu.io/45eaac0851501a19475a94016a4f8f9688a280f6/sensu-email-handler_0.2.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "d69df76612b74acd64aef8eed2ae10d985f6073f9b014c8115b7896ed86786128c20249fd370f30672bf9a11b041a99adb05e3a23342d3ad80d0c346ec23a946",
    "filters": [
      "entity.system.os == 'linux'",
      "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
    ]
  }
}
{
  "type": "CheckConfig",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "prometheus_collector",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "command": "sensu-prometheus-collector -prom-url http://localhost:9090 -prom-query up",
    "handlers": [
    "influxdb"
    ],
    "interval": 10,
    "publish": true,
    "output_metric_format": "influxdb_line",
    "runtime_assets": [
      "sensu-prometheus-collector_linux_amd64"
    ],
    "subscriptions": [
      "system"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

## Sharing an asset on Bonsai

Share your open-source assets on [Bonsai][16] and connect with the Sensu Community.
Bonsai supports assets hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com) and released using [GitHub releases](https://help.github.com/articles/about-releases/).
For more information about creating Sensu Plugins, see the [Sensu Plugin specification][29].

Bonsai requires a [`bonsai.yml` configuration file](#bonsai-yml-specification) in the root directory of your repository that includes the project description, platforms, asset filenames, and SHA-512 checksums.
For a Bonsai-compatible asset template using Go and [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/), see the [Sensu Go plugin skeleton][28].

To share your asset on Bonsai, [log in to Bonsai](https://bonsai.sensu.io/sign-in) with your GitHub account and authorize Sensu.
Once logged in, you can [register your asset on Bonsai](https://bonsai.sensu.io/new) by adding the GitHub repository, description, and tags.
Make sure to provide a helpful README for your asset with configuration examples.

### `bonsai.yml` example

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
description: "#{repo}"
builds:
- platform: "linux"
  arch: "amd64"
  asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_linux_amd64.tar.gz"
  sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'linux'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"

- platform: "Windows"
  arch: "amd64"
  asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_windows_amd64.tar.gz"
  sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'windows'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
{{< /highlight >}}

### `bonsai.yml` specification

 description | 
-------------|------
description  | The project description
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}description: "#{repo}"{{< /highlight >}}

 builds      | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of asset details per platform
required     | true
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}
builds:
- platform: "linux"
  arch: "amd64"
  asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_linux_amd64.tar.gz"
  sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'linux'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
{{< /highlight >}}

### Builds specification

 platform    | 
-------------|------
description  | The platform supported by the asset
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}- platform: "linux"{{< /highlight >}}

 arch        | 
-------------|------
description  | The architecture supported by the asset
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}  arch: "amd64"{{< /highlight >}}

asset_filename | 
-------------|------
description  | The filename of the archive containing the asset
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_linux_amd64.tar.gz"{{< /highlight >}}

sha_filename | 
-------------|------
description  | The SHA-512 checksum for the asset archive
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"{{< /highlight >}}

 filter      | 
-------------|------
description  | Filter expressions describing the operating system and architecture supported by the asset
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'linux'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: ../sensu-query-expressions/
[2]: ../rbac#namespaces
[3]: ../filters
[4]: ../tokens
[5]: #metadata-attributes
[6]: ../checks
[7]: ../filters
[8]: ../mutators
[9]: ../handlers
[10]: ../entities#system-attributes
[sc]: ../../sensuctl/reference#creating-resources
[sp]: #spec-attributes
[16]: https://bonsai.sensu.io
[17]: ../../getting-started/enterprise
[23]: ../../guides/install-check-executables-with-assets
[28]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go-plugin
[29]: /plugins/latest/reference/
[api-filter]: ../../api/overview#filtering
[sensuctl-filter]: ../../sensuctl/reference#filtering
[31]: #example-asset-with-a-check
[32]: ../../installation/plugins/#installing-plugins-using-the-sensu-install-tool
[33]: ../../installation/configuration-management/

Commit message:

Calls out the inability to tar up an existing plugin for use as an asset (#1737)
* Calls out the inability to tar up an existing plugin for use as an asset

* Replication

content/sensu-go/5.9/reference/assets.md, after:

---
title: "Assets"
linkTitle: "Assets"
description: "Assets are shareable, reusable packages that make it easy to deploy Sensu plugins. You can use assets to provide the plugins, libraries, and runtimes you need to create automated monitoring workflows. Read the reference doc to learn about assets."
weight: 10
version: "5.9"
product: "Sensu Go"
platformContent: false 
menu:
  sensu-go-5.9:
    parent: reference
---

- [What is an asset?](#what-is-an-asset)
- [How do assets work?](#how-do-assets-work)
- [Asset format specification](#asset-format-specification)
- [Asset specification](#asset-specification)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [Sharing an asset on Bonsai](#sharing-an-asset-on-bonsai)

You can discover, download, and share assets using [Bonsai, the Sensu asset index][16].
Read the [guide to using assets][23] to get started.

## What is an asset?
Assets are shareable, reusable packages that make it easy to deploy Sensu [plugins](/plugins/latest/reference).
You can use assets to provide the plugins, libraries, and runtimes you need to automate your monitoring workflows.
Sensu supports runtime assets for [checks][6], [filters][7], [mutators][8], and [handlers][9].

_NOTE: Assets are not required to use Sensu Go in production. Sensu plugins can still be installed using the [sensu-install][32] tool or a [configuration management][33] solution._

## How do assets work?
Assets can be executed by the backend (for handler, filter, and mutator assets), or
by the agent (for check assets).
At runtime, the backend or agent sequentially fetches assets that appear in the `runtime_assets` attribute of the handler, filter, mutator or check being executed, verifies the sha512 checksum, and unpacks them into the backend or agent's local cache directory.
The directory path of each asset defined in `runtime_assets` is then injected into the `PATH` before the handler, filter, mutator or check `command` is executed.
Subsequent handler, filter, mutator or check executions look for the asset in the local cache and ensure the contents match the configured checksum.
The backend or agent's local cache path can be set using the `--cache-dir` flag.

You can find a use case using a Sensu resource (a check) and an asset in this [example asset with a check][31].

## Asset format specification

Sensu expects an asset to be a tar archive (optionally gzipped) containing one or more executables within a bin folder.
Any scripts or executables should be within a `bin/` folder within in the archive.
See the [Sensu Go Plugin template][28] for an example asset and Bonsai configuration.

The following are injected into the execution context:

- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/bin` is injected into the `PATH` environment variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/lib` is injected into the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` environment
  variable.
- `{PATH_TO_ASSET}/include` is injected into the `CPATH` environment variable.

_NOTE: If you have used previous versions of Sensu and are familiar with plugins from the [Sensu Plugins community](https://github.com/sensu-plugins), it is not possible to create an asset by creating an archive of an existing project. You must follow the steps outlined in [this Sensu discourse guide](https://discourse.sensu.io/t/contributing-assets-for-existing-ruby-sensu-plugins/1165). For further examples of Sensu users who have added the capability for a community plugin to be used as an asset, see [this post](https://discourse.sensu.io/t/how-to-use-the-sensu-plugins-kubernetes-plugin/1286)._

### Default cache directory

system  | sensu-backend                               | sensu-agent
--------|---------------------------------------------|-------------
Linux   | `/var/cache/sensu/sensu-backend`            | `/var/cache/sensu/sensu-agent`
Windows | N/A                                         | `C:\ProgramData\sensu\cache\sensu-agent`

If the requested asset is not in the local cache, it is downloaded from the asset
URL. The Sensu backend does not currently provide any storage for assets; they
are expected to be retrieved over HTTP or HTTPS.

### Example structure
{{< highlight shell >}}
sensu-example-handler_1.0.0_linux_amd64
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
└── bin
  └── my-check.sh
└── lib
└── include
{{< /highlight >}}

## Asset specification

### Top-level attributes

type         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the [`sensuctl create`][sc] resource type. Assets should always be of type `Asset`.
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "Asset"{{< /highlight >}}

api_version  | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level attribute specifying the Sensu API group and version. For assets in Sensu backend version 5.9, this attribute should always be `core/v2`.
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"api_version": "core/v2"{{< /highlight >}}

metadata     | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level collection of metadata about the asset, including the `name` and `namespace` as well as custom `labels` and `annotations`. The `metadata` map is always at the top level of the asset definition. This means that in `wrapped-json` and `yaml` formats, the `metadata` scope occurs outside the `spec` scope.  See the [metadata attributes reference][5] for details.
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"metadata": {
  "name": "check_script",
  "namespace": "default",
  "labels": {
    "region": "us-west-1"
  },
  "annotations": {
    "slack-channel" : "#monitoring"
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

spec         | 
-------------|------
description  | Top-level map that includes the asset [spec attributes][sp].
required     | Required for asset definitions in `wrapped-json` or `yaml` format for use with [`sensuctl create`][sc].
type         | Map of key-value pairs
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"spec": {
  "url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b",
  "filters": [
    "entity.system.os == 'linux'",
    "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
  ]
}{{< /highlight >}}

### Spec attributes

url          | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The URL location of the asset. 
required     | true
type         | String 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz"{{< /highlight >}}

sha512       | 
-------------|------ 
description  | The checksum of the asset. 
required     | true
type         | String 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"sha512": "4f926bf4328..."{{< /highlight >}}

filters      | 
-------------|------ 
description  | A set of [Sensu query expressions][1] used to determine if the asset should be installed. If multiple expressions are included, each expression must return true in order for Sensu to install the asset.<br><br>Filters for _check_ assets should match agent entity platforms, while filters for _handler and filter_ assets should match your Sensu backend platform. You can create asset filter expressions using any supported [entity system attributes][10], including `os`, `arch`, `platform`, and `platform_family`. _PRO TIP: Asset filters let you reuse checks across platforms safely. Assign assets for multiple platforms to a single check, and rely on asset filters to ensure that only the appropriate asset is installed on each agent._
required     | false 
type         | Array 
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"filters": ["entity.system.os=='linux'", "entity.system.arch=='amd64'"] {{< /highlight >}}

### Metadata attributes

name         |      |
-------------|------ 
description  | The unique name of the asset, validated with Go regex [`\A[\w\.\-]+\z`](https://regex101.com/r/zo9mQU/2).
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "check_script"{{< /highlight >}}

| namespace  |      |
-------------|------
description  | The [Sensu RBAC namespace][2] that this asset belongs to.
required     | false
type         | String
default      | `default`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"namespace": "production"{{< /highlight >}}

| labels     |      |
-------------|------
description  | Custom attributes you can use to create meaningful collections that can be selected with [API filtering][api-filter] and [sensuctl filtering][sensuctl-filter]. Overusing labels can impact Sensu's internal performance, so we recommend moving complex, non-identifying metadata to annotations.
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys can contain only letters, numbers, and underscores, but must start with a letter. Values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"labels": {
  "environment": "development",
  "region": "us-west-2"
}{{< /highlight >}}

| annotations | |
-------------|------
description  | Non-identifying metadata that's meaningful to people interacting with Sensu.<br><br>In contrast to labels, annotations cannot be used in [API filtering][api-filter] or [sensuctl filtering][sensuctl-filter] and do not impact Sensu's internal performance.
required     | false
type         | Map of key-value pairs. Keys and values can be any valid UTF-8 string.
default      | `null`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}} "annotations": {
  "managed-by": "ops",
  "playbook": "www.example.url"
}{{< /highlight >}}

## Examples

### Minimum required asset attributes

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
type: Asset
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: check_script
  namespace: default
spec:
  sha512: 4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b
  url: http://example.com/asset.tar.gz
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Asset",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "check_script",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

### Asset definition

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
type: Asset
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  annotations:
    slack-channel: '#monitoring'
  labels:
    region: us-west-1
  name: check_script
  namespace: default
spec:
  filters:
  - entity.system.os == 'linux'
  - entity.system.arch == 'amd64'
  sha512: 4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b
  url: http://example.com/asset.tar.gz
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "type": "Asset",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "check_script",
    "namespace": "default",
    "labels": {
      "region": "us-west-1"
    },
    "annotations": {
      "slack-channel" : "#monitoring"
    }
  },
  "spec": {
    "url": "http://example.com/asset.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "4f926bf4328fbad2b9cac873d117f771914f4b837c9c85584c38ccf55a3ef3c2e8d154812246e5dda4a87450576b2c58ad9ab40c9e2edc31b288d066b195b21b",
    "filters": [
      "entity.system.os == 'linux'",
      "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

### Example asset with a check

{{< language-toggle >}}

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
type: Asset
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: sensu-prometheus-collector_linux_amd64
spec:
  url: https://assets.bonsai.sensu.io/ef812286f59de36a40e51178024b81c69666e1b7/sensu-prometheus-collector_1.1.6_linux_amd64.tar.gz
  sha512: a70056ca02662fbf2999460f6be93f174c7e09c5a8b12efc7cc42ce1ccb5570ee0f328a2dd8223f506df3b5972f7f521728f7bdd6abf9f6ca2234d690aeb3808
  filters:
  - entity.system.os == 'linux'
  - entity.system.arch == 'amd64'
---
type: CheckConfig
api_version: core/v2
metadata:
  name: prometheus_collector
  namespace: default
spec:
  command: "sensu-prometheus-collector -prom-url http://localhost:9090 -prom-query up"
  interval: 10
  publish: true
  output_metric_handlers:
  - influxdb
  output_metric_format: influxdb_line
  runtime_assets:
  - sensu-prometheus-collector_linux_amd64
  subscriptions:
  - system
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight wrapped-json >}}
{
  "type": "Asset",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-email-handler_linux_amd64"
  },
  "spec": {
    "url": "https://assets.bonsai.sensu.io/45eaac0851501a19475a94016a4f8f9688a280f6/sensu-email-handler_0.2.0_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "d69df76612b74acd64aef8eed2ae10d985f6073f9b014c8115b7896ed86786128c20249fd370f30672bf9a11b041a99adb05e3a23342d3ad80d0c346ec23a946",
    "filters": [
      "entity.system.os == 'linux'",
      "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
    ]
  }
}
{
  "type": "CheckConfig",
  "api_version": "core/v2",
  "metadata": {
    "name": "prometheus_collector",
    "namespace": "default"
  },
  "spec": {
    "command": "sensu-prometheus-collector -prom-url http://localhost:9090 -prom-query up",
    "handlers": [
    "influxdb"
    ],
    "interval": 10,
    "publish": true,
    "output_metric_format": "influxdb_line",
    "runtime_assets": [
      "sensu-prometheus-collector_linux_amd64"
    ],
    "subscriptions": [
      "system"
    ]
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /language-toggle >}}

## Sharing an asset on Bonsai

Share your open-source assets on [Bonsai][16] and connect with the Sensu Community.
Bonsai supports assets hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com) and released using [GitHub releases](https://help.github.com/articles/about-releases/).
For more information about creating Sensu Plugins, see the [Sensu Plugin specification][29].

Bonsai requires a [`bonsai.yml` configuration file](#bonsai-yml-specification) in the root directory of your repository that includes the project description, platforms, asset filenames, and SHA-512 checksums.
For a Bonsai-compatible asset template using Go and [GoReleaser](https://goreleaser.com/), see the [Sensu Go plugin skeleton][28].

To share your asset on Bonsai, [log in to Bonsai](https://bonsai.sensu.io/sign-in) with your GitHub account and authorize Sensu.
Once logged in, you can [register your asset on Bonsai](https://bonsai.sensu.io/new) by adding the GitHub repository, description, and tags.
Make sure to provide a helpful README for your asset with configuration examples.

### `bonsai.yml` example

{{< highlight yml >}}
---
description: "#{repo}"
builds:
- platform: "linux"
  arch: "amd64"
  asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_linux_amd64.tar.gz"
  sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'linux'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"

- platform: "Windows"
  arch: "amd64"
  asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_windows_amd64.tar.gz"
  sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'windows'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
{{< /highlight >}}

### `bonsai.yml` specification

 description | 
-------------|------
description  | The project description
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}description: "#{repo}"{{< /highlight >}}

 builds      | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of asset details per platform
required     | true
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}
builds:
- platform: "linux"
  arch: "amd64"
  asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_linux_amd64.tar.gz"
  sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'linux'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
{{< /highlight >}}

### Builds specification

 platform    | 
-------------|------
description  | The platform supported by the asset
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}- platform: "linux"{{< /highlight >}}

 arch        | 
-------------|------
description  | The architecture supported by the asset
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}  arch: "amd64"{{< /highlight >}}

asset_filename | 
-------------|------
description  | The filename of the archive containing the asset
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}asset_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_linux_amd64.tar.gz"{{< /highlight >}}

sha_filename | 
-------------|------
description  | The SHA-512 checksum for the asset archive
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}sha_filename: "#{repo}_#{version}_sha512-checksums.txt"{{< /highlight >}}

 filter      | 
-------------|------
description  | Filter expressions describing the operating system and architecture supported by the asset
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight yml >}}
  filter:
  -  "entity.system.os == 'linux'"
  -  "entity.system.arch == 'amd64'"
{{< /highlight >}}

[1]: ../sensu-query-expressions/
[2]: ../rbac#namespaces
[3]: ../filters
[4]: ../tokens
[5]: #metadata-attributes
[6]: ../checks
[7]: ../filters
[8]: ../mutators
[9]: ../handlers
[10]: ../entities#system-attributes
[sc]: ../../sensuctl/reference#creating-resources
[sp]: #spec-attributes
[16]: https://bonsai.sensu.io
[17]: ../../getting-started/enterprise
[23]: ../../guides/install-check-executables-with-assets
[28]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go-plugin
[29]: /plugins/latest/reference/
[api-filter]: ../../api/overview#filtering
[sensuctl-filter]: ../../sensuctl/reference#filtering
[31]: #example-asset-with-a-check
[32]: ../../installation/plugins/#installing-plugins-using-the-sensu-install-tool
[33]: ../../installation/configuration-management/
