content/sensu-core/2.0/guides/monitor-server-resources.md, before:

---
title: "How to monitor server resources with checks"
linkTitle: "Monitoring Server Resources"
weight: 10
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: false
menu: 
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: guides
---

## What are Sensu checks?

Sensu checks are **commands** (or scripts), executed by the Sensu agent, that
output data and produce an exit code to indicate a state. Sensu checks use the
same specification as **Nagios**, therefore, Nagios **check plugins** may be
used with Sensu.

## Why use a check?

Checks are commonly used to monitor server resources, services, and application
health (e.g. is Nginx running?) as well as collect & analyze metrics (e.g. how
much disk space do I have left?)

## Using checks to monitor a service

The purpose of this guide is to help you monitor server resources, more
specifically the CPU usage, by configuring a check named `check-cpu` with a
**subscription** named `linux`, in order to target all **entities** subscribed
to the `linux` subscription.

### Installating a script

The `check-cpu.sh` script provided by the [Sensu CPU Checks Plugin][1] can
reliably detect the percentage of CPU usage. The following command will provide
the `check-cpu.sh` script and should be run on every Sensu agent that has an
entity subscribed to the `linux` subscription.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-cpu-checks/03a99bab0237c81121ce702b0c5a5a3b44908535/bin/check-cpu.sh \
-o /usr/local/bin/check-cpu.sh && \
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/check-cpu.sh
{{< /highlight >}}

While this command is appropriate when running a few agents, you should consider
using a **configuration management** tool or use [Sensu assets][2] to provide
runtime dependencies to checks on bigger environments.

### Creating the check

Now that our script is installed, the second step is to create a check named
`check-cpu`, which runs the command `check-cpu.sh -w 75 -c 90`, at an
**interval** of 60 seconds, for all entities subscribed to the `linux`
subscription.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl check create check-cpu \
--command 'check-cpu.sh -w 75 -c 90' \
--interval 60 \
--subscriptions linux
{{< /highlight >}}

### Validating the check

You can verify the proper behavior of this check against a specific entity, here
named `i-424242`, by using `sensuctl`. It might take a few moments, once the
check is created, for the check to be scheduled on the entity and the result
sent back to Sensu backend.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl event info i-424242 check-cpu
{{< /highlight >}}

## Next steps

You now know how to run a simple check to verify the CPU usage. From this point,
here are some recommended resources:

* Read the [checks reference][3] for in-depth documentation on checks.
* Read our guide on [providing runtime dependencies to checks with assets][2].
* Read our guide on [monitoring external resources with proxy checks and entities][5].
* Read our guide on [sending alerts to Slack with handlers][6].

[1]: https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-cpu-checks
[2]: ../install-check-executables-with-assets
[3]: ../../reference/checks
[4]: ../ 
[5]: ../monitor-external-resources
[6]: ../send-slack-alerts

Commit message:

Zombie warning!
Signed-off-by: Nikki Attea <nikki@sensu.io>

content/sensu-core/2.0/guides/monitor-server-resources.md, after:

---
title: "How to monitor server resources with checks"
linkTitle: "Monitoring Server Resources"
weight: 10
version: "2.0"
product: "Sensu Core"
platformContent: false
menu:
  sensu-core-2.0:
    parent: guides
---

## What are Sensu checks?

Sensu checks are **commands** (or scripts), executed by the Sensu agent, that
output data and produce an exit code to indicate a state. Sensu checks use the
same specification as **Nagios**, therefore, Nagios **check plugins** may be
used with Sensu.

## Why use a check?

Checks are commonly used to monitor server resources, services, and application
health (e.g. is Nginx running?) as well as collect & analyze metrics (e.g. how
much disk space do I have left?)

## Using checks to monitor a service

The purpose of this guide is to help you monitor server resources, more
specifically the CPU usage, by configuring a check named `check-cpu` with a
**subscription** named `linux`, in order to target all **entities** subscribed
to the `linux` subscription.

### Installating a script

The `check-cpu.sh` script provided by the [Sensu CPU Checks Plugin][1] can
reliably detect the percentage of CPU usage. The following command will provide
the `check-cpu.sh` script and should be run on every Sensu agent that has an
entity subscribed to the `linux` subscription.

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-cpu-checks/03a99bab0237c81121ce702b0c5a5a3b44908535/bin/check-cpu.sh \
-o /usr/local/bin/check-cpu.sh && \
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/check-cpu.sh
{{< /highlight >}}

While this command is appropriate when running a few agents, you should consider
using a **configuration management** tool or use [Sensu assets][2] to provide
runtime dependencies to checks on bigger environments.

### Creating the check

Now that our script is installed, the second step is to create a check named
`check-cpu`, which runs the command `check-cpu.sh -w 75 -c 90`, at an
**interval** of 60 seconds, for all entities subscribed to the `linux`
subscription.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl check create check-cpu \
--command 'check-cpu.sh -w 75 -c 90' \
--interval 60 \
--subscriptions linux
{{< /highlight >}}

**Note** Sensu advises against requiring root privileges to execute check
commands or scripts. The Sensu user is not permitted to kill timed out processes
invoked by the root user, which _could_ result in zombie processes. While Sensu
discourages the use of `sudo` in check commands, you are free to configure your
checks as you see fit, but please do so at your own risk.

### Validating the check

You can verify the proper behavior of this check against a specific entity, here
named `i-424242`, by using `sensuctl`. It might take a few moments, once the
check is created, for the check to be scheduled on the entity and the result
sent back to Sensu backend.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sensuctl event info i-424242 check-cpu
{{< /highlight >}}

## Next steps

You now know how to run a simple check to verify the CPU usage. From this point,
here are some recommended resources:

* Read the [checks reference][3] for in-depth documentation on checks.
* Read our guide on [providing runtime dependencies to checks with assets][2].
* Read our guide on [monitoring external resources with proxy checks and entities][5].
* Read our guide on [sending alerts to Slack with handlers][6].

[1]: https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-cpu-checks
[2]: ../install-check-executables-with-assets
[3]: ../../reference/checks
[4]: ../
[5]: ../monitor-external-resources
[6]: ../send-slack-alerts
