---
title: "Email integration"
linkTitle: "Email"
description: "Use the Sensu Email Handler plugin to integrate Sensu with your existing alerting workflows. Read about the features of Sensu's Email integration and learn how to get the plugin."
version: "6.1"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu: 
  sensu-go-6.1:
    parent: supported-integrations
---

The Sensu Email Handler plugin is a Sensu [handler][1] that sends email alerts based on your event data.
With this handler, Sensu can send email messages to the email addresses you specify based on event data generated by your Sensu checks.

{{% notice note %}}
**NOTE**: The Sensu Email Handler plugin is an example of Sensu's alerting integrations.
To find more integrations, search [Bonsai, the Sensu asset index](https://bonsai.sensu.io/).
{{% /notice %}}

## Features

**NEED TO COMPLETE** Can use environment variables and secrets management to avoid exposing your email usernames and passwords? Are there other features to add here?

- [Event-based templating][2]: include observation data from event attributes to add meaningful, actionable context to your email alert messages.

## Get the plugin

Add the [Sensu Email Handler plugin][4] with a dynamic runtime asset from Bonsai, the Sensu asset index, to build your own workflow or integrate Sensu with your existing email workflows.
[Dynamic runtime assets][5] are shareable, reusable packages that make it easier to deploy Sensu plugins.

## More resources

- Walk through adding and configuring the Sensu Email Handler asset in the [Send email alerts with the Sensu Go Email Handler][3] guide.
- Try the Sensu Email Handler integration in your browswer with the [Up and running with Sensu Go][6] interactive tutorial.


[1]: ../../../observability-pipeline/observe-process/handlers/
[2]: ../../../observability-pipeline/observe-process/handler-templates/
[3]: ../../../observability-pipeline/observe-process/send-email-alerts/
[4]: https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-email-handler
[5]: ../../assets/
[6]: ../../../learn/up-and-running/
