content/sensu-core/0.29/reference/events.md, before:

---
title: "Events"
description: "Reference documentation for Sensu Events, including the Event Data specification."
product: "Sensu Core"
version: "0.29"
weight: 5
menu:
  sensu-core-0.29:
    parent: reference
---

## Reference documentation

- [What are Sensu events?](#what-are-sensu-events)
  - [How are Sensu events created?](#how-are-sensu-events-created)
  - [Event actions](#event-actions)
- [Event data](#event-data)
  - [Example event](#example-event)
  - [Event data specification](#event-data-specification)
    - [`EVENT` attributes](#event-attributes)
    - [`check` attributes](#check-attributes)
    - [`client` attributes](#client-attributes)

## What are Sensu events? {#what-are-sensu-events}

Sensu events are created to acknowledge that something potentially noteworthy
has occurred, which events may then be processed by one or more [event
handlers][1] to do things such as send an email, or invoke an automated action.
Every Sensu event provides context, called ["event data"][2], which contains
information about the originating [Sensu client][3] and the corresponding [check
result][4].

### How are Sensu events created?

A Sensu Event is created every time a [check result][10] is processed by the
Sensu server, regardless of the status indicated by the check result. An Event
is created by collating data from the check result, the [client registry][22]
and additional context added at the time of processing.

### Event actions

Sensu supports the following event actions.

- **create**. Indicates a check result `status` change from zero to non-zero.
- **resolve**. Indicates a check result `status` change from a non-zero to zero.
- **flapping**. Indicates a rapid change in check result `status`.

_NOTE: for more information on event `action`s, please see the [Sensu event data
specification][5], below._

## Event data

### Example event

The following is an example Sensu event. By default, event data is JSON
formatted, making it language-independent and fairly human readable.

{{< highlight json >}}
[
  {
    "id": "ef6b87d2-1f89-439f-8bea-33881436ab90",
    "action": "create",
    "timestamp": 1460172826,
    "occurrences": 2,
    "check": {
      "type": "standard",
      "total_state_change": 11,
      "history": ["0", "0", "1", "1", "2", "2"],
      "status": 2,
      "output": "No keepalive sent from client for 230 seconds (>=180)",
      "executed": 1460172826,
      "issued": 1460172826,
      "name": "keepalive",
      "thresholds": {
        "critical": 180,
        "warning": 120
      }
    },
    "client": {
      "timestamp": 1460172596,
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "socket": {
        "port": 3030,
        "bind": "127.0.0.1"
      },
      "subscriptions": [
        "production"
      ],
      "environment": "development",
      "address": "127.0.0.1",
      "name": "client-01"
    }
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

### Event data specification

#### `EVENT` attributes

The following attributes are available in the root scope of the event data JSON
document:

id              | 
----------------|------
description     | Persistent unique ID for the event.
type            | String
possible values | Any [Ruby `SecureRandom.uuid` value][7]
example         | {{< highlight shell >}}"id": "66926524-da77-41a4-92bd-365498841079"{{< /highlight >}}

timestamp    | 
-------------|------
description  | The time the event occurred in [Epoch time][6] (generated via Ruby `Time.now.to_i`)
type         | Integer
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"timestamp": 1460172826{{< /highlight >}}

action          | 
----------------|------
description     | The Sensu event action, providing event handlers with more information about the state change.
type            | String
possible values | `create`, `resolve`, `flapping`
default         | `create`
example         | {{< highlight shell >}}"action": "create"{{< /highlight >}}

occurrences  | 
-------------|------
description  | The occurrence count for the event; the number of times an event has been created for a client/check pair with the same state (check status).
type         | Integer
default      | `1`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"occurrences": 3{{< /highlight >}}

occurrences_watermark | 
----------------------|------
description           | The "high water mark" tracking number of occurrences at the current severity.
type                  | Integer
default               | `1`
example               | {{< highlight shell >}}"occurrences_watermark": 3{{< /highlight >}}

check        | 
-------------|------
description  | The check result [check attributes][8].
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"check":{
  "name": "chef_client",
  "command": "/etc/sensu/plugins/check-chef-client.rb",
  "subscribers": [
    "production"
  ],
  "interval": 60,
  "handler": "slack",
  "issued": 1326390169,
  "output": "WARNING - Chef client process is NOT running",
  "status": 1,
  "history": [
    "0",
    "1"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

client       | 
-------------|------
description  | [Client attributes][9] from the originating client, or the proxy client attributes, in the case of an event from a proxy client.
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"client": {
  "name": "i-424242",
  "address": "8.8.8.8",
  "subscriptions": [
    "production",
    "webserver",
    "mysql"
  ],
  "timestamp": 1326390159
}
{{< /highlight >}}

silenced     | 
-------------|------
description  |
type         |
example      |

silenced_by  | 
-------------|------
description  | List of silence entry IDs which match this event
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight json >}}[ "load-balancer:check_ntp" ]{{< /highlight >}}


#### `check` attributes

The following attributes are available in the `{ "check": {} }` scope of the
event data JSON document.

_NOTE: In general, event data check attributes are fetched from [Check result
data][10] during event processing, which check result will include any [check
definition attribute][11] (which may include [custom check definition
attributes][12]). The following specification only documents the standard set of
check attributes which may be expected in an event data payload._


type           | 
---------------|------
description    | The check type.
default        | `standard`
allowed values | `standard`, `metric`
type           | String
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "standard"{{< /highlight >}}

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The `name` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | String
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "sensu_website"{{< /highlight >}}

command      | 
-------------|------
description  | The `command` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | String
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"command": "check-http.rb -u https://sensuapp.org"{{< /highlight >}}

subscribers  | 
-------------|------
description  | The `subscribers` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | Array
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscribers": [
  "webserver"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

interval     | 
-------------|------
description  | The `interval`, in seconds, as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | Integer
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"interval": 30{{< /highlight >}}

handler      | 
-------------|------
description  | The `handler` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | String
required     | `false`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handler": "slack"{{< /highlight >}}

handlers     | 
-------------|------
description  | The `handlers` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | Array
required     | `false`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handlers": [
  "slack"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

issued       | 
-------------|------
description  | The `issued` timestamp (in [epoch time][13]), when Sensu issued the check request (for a subscription check or standalone check).
type         | Integer
required     | `false`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"issued": 1326390159{{< /highlight >}}

output       | 
-------------|------
description  | The `output` produced by the check, as included in the [check result][10].
type         | String
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"output": "CheckHttp OK: 200, 78572 bytes\n"{{< /highlight >}}

status       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [exit status code][14] produced by the check, as included in the [check result][10].
type         | Integer
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"status": 0{{< /highlight >}}

history      | 
-------------|------
description  | The history of the last 21 exit status codes produced by the check, as included in the [check result][10].
type         | Array
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"history": [0,0,0,0,0,0,1,2,2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]{{< /highlight >}}

source       | 
-------------|------
description  | The name of the [proxy client][15] to associate the event with, as included in the [check result][10] (`source` attribute)._NOTE: the `source` attribute may be included in [check definitions][11], or provided in check results published to the [Sensu client input socket][16]._
type         | String
required     | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"source": "sensuapp.org"{{< /highlight >}}

origin       | 
-------------|------
description  | The `name` of the Sensu client that executed the check._NOTE: this attribute is only provided for proxy client events (i.e. events containing a `source` attribute._
type         | String
required     | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"origin": "i-424242"{{< /highlight >}}

#### `client` attributes

The following attributes are available in the `{ "client": {} }` scope of the
event data JSON document.

_NOTE: In general, event data client attributes are fetched from the [Clients
API][17] during event processing, including any [client definition
attribute][18] (which may include [custom client definition attributes][19]).
The following specification only documents the standard set of check attributes
which may be expected in an event data payload._

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The `name` of the Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]) the event is associated with, as fetched from the [Clients API][17].
type         | String
required     | true
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "i-424242"{{< /highlight >}}

address      | 
-------------|------
description  | The `address` of the Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]) the event is associated with, as fetched from the [Clients API][17].
type         | String
required     | true
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"address": "10.0.2.100"{{< /highlight >}}

subscriptions | 
--------------|------
description   | The `subscriptions` the associated Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]) is a member of, as fetched from the [Clients API][17].
type          | Array
required      | true
example       | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": [
  "webserver"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

timestamp    | 
-------------|------
description  | The last [keepalive][20] `timestamp` (in [epoch time][13]) produced by the Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]), as fetched from the [Clients API][17]._NOTE: for proxy clients, this will usually represent the date/time when the proxy client was created, unless some external process is updating proxy client data via the [Clients API (POST)][21]._
type         | Integer
required     | true
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"timestamp": 1326390159{{< /highlight >}}



[1]:  ../handlers
[2]:  #event-data
[3]:  ../checks
[4]:  ../checks#check-results
[5]:  #event-data-specification
[6]:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time
[7]:  http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.3.0/libdoc/securerandom/rdoc/SecureRandom.html
[8]:  #check-attributes
[9]:  #client-attributes
[10]: ../checks#check-results
[11]: ../checks#check-definition-specification
[12]: ../checks#custom-attributes
[13]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time
[14]: ../checks#sensu-check-specification
[15]: ../clients#proxy-clients
[16]: ../clients#client-socket-input
[17]: ../../api/clients
[18]: ../clients#client-definition-specification
[19]: ../clients#custom-attributes
[20]: ../clients#client-keepalives
[21]: ../../api/clients#clients-post
[22]: ../clients#registration-and-registry

Commit message:

Add last_ok attribute to event reference (#459)
Add last_ok attribute to event reference

content/sensu-core/0.29/reference/events.md, after:

---
title: "Events"
description: "Reference documentation for Sensu Events, including the Event Data specification."
product: "Sensu Core"
version: "0.29"
weight: 5
menu:
  sensu-core-0.29:
    parent: reference
---

## Reference documentation

- [What are Sensu events?](#what-are-sensu-events)
  - [How are Sensu events created?](#how-are-sensu-events-created)
  - [Event actions](#event-actions)
- [Event data](#event-data)
  - [Example event](#example-event)
  - [Event data specification](#event-data-specification)
    - [`EVENT` attributes](#event-attributes)
    - [`check` attributes](#check-attributes)
    - [`client` attributes](#client-attributes)

## What are Sensu events? {#what-are-sensu-events}

Sensu events are created to acknowledge that something potentially noteworthy
has occurred, which events may then be processed by one or more [event
handlers][1] to do things such as send an email, or invoke an automated action.
Every Sensu event provides context, called ["event data"][2], which contains
information about the originating [Sensu client][3] and the corresponding [check
result][4].

### How are Sensu events created?

A Sensu Event is created every time a [check result][10] is processed by the
Sensu server, regardless of the status indicated by the check result. An Event
is created by collating data from the check result, the [client registry][22]
and additional context added at the time of processing.

### Event actions

Sensu supports the following event actions.

- **create**. Indicates a check result `status` change from zero to non-zero.
- **resolve**. Indicates a check result `status` change from a non-zero to zero.
- **flapping**. Indicates a rapid change in check result `status`.

_NOTE: for more information on event `action`s, please see the [Sensu event data
specification][5], below._

## Event data

### Example event

The following is an example Sensu event. By default, event data is JSON
formatted, making it language-independent and fairly human readable.

{{< highlight json >}}
[
  {
    "id": "ef6b87d2-1f89-439f-8bea-33881436ab90",
    "action": "create",
    "timestamp": 1460172826,
    "occurrences": 2,
    "check": {
      "type": "standard",
      "total_state_change": 11,
      "history": ["0", "0", "1", "1", "2", "2"],
      "status": 2,
      "output": "No keepalive sent from client for 230 seconds (>=180)",
      "executed": 1460172826,
      "issued": 1460172826,
      "name": "keepalive",
      "thresholds": {
        "critical": 180,
        "warning": 120
      }
    },
    "client": {
      "timestamp": 1460172596,
      "version": "1.0.0",
      "socket": {
        "port": 3030,
        "bind": "127.0.0.1"
      },
      "subscriptions": [
        "production"
      ],
      "environment": "development",
      "address": "127.0.0.1",
      "name": "client-01"
    }
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

### Event data specification

#### `EVENT` attributes

The following attributes are available in the root scope of the event data JSON
document:

id              | 
----------------|------
description     | Persistent unique ID for the event.
type            | String
possible values | Any [Ruby `SecureRandom.uuid` value][7]
example         | {{< highlight shell >}}"id": "66926524-da77-41a4-92bd-365498841079"{{< /highlight >}}

timestamp    | 
-------------|------
description  | The time the event occurred in [Epoch time][6] (generated via Ruby `Time.now.to_i`)
type         | Integer
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"timestamp": 1460172826{{< /highlight >}}

action          | 
----------------|------
description     | The Sensu event action, providing event handlers with more information about the state change.
type            | String
possible values | `create`, `resolve`, `flapping`
default         | `create`
example         | {{< highlight shell >}}"action": "create"{{< /highlight >}}

last_ok       | 
--------------|-----
description   | The most recent time a check result indicated an 'OK' status for this client/check pair (generated via Ruby `Time.now.to_i`).
type          | Integer
example       | `1528150592`

occurrences  | 
-------------|------
description  | The occurrence count for the event; the number of times an event has been created for a client/check pair with the same state (check status).
type         | Integer
default      | `1`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"occurrences": 3{{< /highlight >}}

occurrences_watermark | 
----------------------|------
description           | The "high water mark" tracking number of occurrences at the current severity.
type                  | Integer
default               | `1`
example               | {{< highlight shell >}}"occurrences_watermark": 3{{< /highlight >}}

check        | 
-------------|------
description  | The check result [check attributes][8].
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"check":{
  "name": "chef_client",
  "command": "/etc/sensu/plugins/check-chef-client.rb",
  "subscribers": [
    "production"
  ],
  "interval": 60,
  "handler": "slack",
  "issued": 1326390169,
  "output": "WARNING - Chef client process is NOT running",
  "status": 1,
  "history": [
    "0",
    "1"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

client       | 
-------------|------
description  | [Client attributes][9] from the originating client, or the proxy client attributes, in the case of an event from a proxy client.
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"client": {
  "name": "i-424242",
  "address": "8.8.8.8",
  "subscriptions": [
    "production",
    "webserver",
    "mysql"
  ],
  "timestamp": 1326390159
}
{{< /highlight >}}

silenced     | 
-------------|------
description  |
type         |
example      |

silenced_by  | 
-------------|------
description  | List of silence entry IDs which match this event
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight json >}}[ "load-balancer:check_ntp" ]{{< /highlight >}}


#### `check` attributes

The following attributes are available in the `{ "check": {} }` scope of the
event data JSON document.

_NOTE: In general, event data check attributes are fetched from [Check result
data][10] during event processing, which check result will include any [check
definition attribute][11] (which may include [custom check definition
attributes][12]). The following specification only documents the standard set of
check attributes which may be expected in an event data payload._


type           | 
---------------|------
description    | The check type.
default        | `standard`
allowed values | `standard`, `metric`
type           | String
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"type": "standard"{{< /highlight >}}

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The `name` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | String
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "sensu_website"{{< /highlight >}}

command      | 
-------------|------
description  | The `command` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | String
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"command": "check-http.rb -u https://sensuapp.org"{{< /highlight >}}

subscribers  | 
-------------|------
description  | The `subscribers` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | Array
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscribers": [
  "webserver"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

interval     | 
-------------|------
description  | The `interval`, in seconds, as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | Integer
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"interval": 30{{< /highlight >}}

handler      | 
-------------|------
description  | The `handler` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | String
required     | `false`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handler": "slack"{{< /highlight >}}

handlers     | 
-------------|------
description  | The `handlers` as defined in the originating [check definition][11].
type         | Array
required     | `false`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"handlers": [
  "slack"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

issued       | 
-------------|------
description  | The `issued` timestamp (in [epoch time][13]), when Sensu issued the check request (for a subscription check or standalone check).
type         | Integer
required     | `false`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"issued": 1326390159{{< /highlight >}}

output       | 
-------------|------
description  | The `output` produced by the check, as included in the [check result][10].
type         | String
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"output": "CheckHttp OK: 200, 78572 bytes\n"{{< /highlight >}}

status       | 
-------------|------
description  | The [exit status code][14] produced by the check, as included in the [check result][10].
type         | Integer
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"status": 0{{< /highlight >}}

history      | 
-------------|------
description  | The history of the last 21 exit status codes produced by the check, as included in the [check result][10].
type         | Array
required     | `true`
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"history": [0,0,0,0,0,0,1,2,2,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0]{{< /highlight >}}

source       | 
-------------|------
description  | The name of the [proxy client][15] to associate the event with, as included in the [check result][10] (`source` attribute)._NOTE: the `source` attribute may be included in [check definitions][11], or provided in check results published to the [Sensu client input socket][16]._
type         | String
required     | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"source": "sensuapp.org"{{< /highlight >}}

origin       | 
-------------|------
description  | The `name` of the Sensu client that executed the check._NOTE: this attribute is only provided for proxy client events (i.e. events containing a `source` attribute._
type         | String
required     | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"origin": "i-424242"{{< /highlight >}}

#### `client` attributes

The following attributes are available in the `{ "client": {} }` scope of the
event data JSON document.

_NOTE: In general, event data client attributes are fetched from the [Clients
API][17] during event processing, including any [client definition
attribute][18] (which may include [custom client definition attributes][19]).
The following specification only documents the standard set of check attributes
which may be expected in an event data payload._

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The `name` of the Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]) the event is associated with, as fetched from the [Clients API][17].
type         | String
required     | true
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "i-424242"{{< /highlight >}}

address      | 
-------------|------
description  | The `address` of the Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]) the event is associated with, as fetched from the [Clients API][17].
type         | String
required     | true
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"address": "10.0.2.100"{{< /highlight >}}

subscriptions | 
--------------|------
description   | The `subscriptions` the associated Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]) is a member of, as fetched from the [Clients API][17].
type          | Array
required      | true
example       | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": [
  "webserver"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

timestamp    | 
-------------|------
description  | The last [keepalive][20] `timestamp` (in [epoch time][13]) produced by the Sensu client (or [proxy client][15]), as fetched from the [Clients API][17]._NOTE: for proxy clients, this will usually represent the date/time when the proxy client was created, unless some external process is updating proxy client data via the [Clients API (POST)][21]._
type         | Integer
required     | true
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"timestamp": 1326390159{{< /highlight >}}



[1]:  ../handlers
[2]:  #event-data
[3]:  ../checks
[4]:  ../checks#check-results
[5]:  #event-data-specification
[6]:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time
[7]:  http://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.3.0/libdoc/securerandom/rdoc/SecureRandom.html
[8]:  #check-attributes
[9]:  #client-attributes
[10]: ../checks#check-results
[11]: ../checks#check-definition-specification
[12]: ../checks#custom-attributes
[13]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time
[14]: ../checks#sensu-check-specification
[15]: ../clients#proxy-clients
[16]: ../clients#client-socket-input
[17]: ../../api/clients
[18]: ../clients#client-definition-specification
[19]: ../clients#custom-attributes
[20]: ../clients#client-keepalives
[21]: ../../api/clients#clients-post
[22]: ../clients#registration-and-registry
