content/sensu-core/1.1/guides/intro-to-checks.md, before:

---
title: "Intro to Checks"
version: "1.1"
product: "Sensu Core"
weight: 3
next: ../intro-to-filters
previous: ../adding-a-client
menu:
  sensu-core-1.1:
    parent: guides
---

# An Introduction to Checks

The purpose of this guide is to help Sensu users create monitoring checks. At
the conclusion of this guide, you - the user - should have several Sensu checks
in place to monitor and measure machine resources, applications, and services.
Each Sensu monitoring check in this guide demonstrates one or more check
definition features, for more information please refer to the [Sensu checks
reference documentation][1].

## Objectives

What will be covered in this guide:

- Creation of **standard** checks (functional tests)
- Creation of **metric collection** checks (server resources, etc)
- Creation of **metric analysis** checks (querying time series data, etc)

## What are Sensu checks? {#what-are-sensu-checks}

Sensu checks allow you to monitor server resources, services, and application
health, as well as collect & analyze metrics; they are executed on servers
running the Sensu client. Checks are essentially commands (or scripts) that
output data to `STDOUT` or `STDERR` and produce an exit status code to indicate
a state. The common exit status codes used are `0` for `OK`, `1` for `WARNING`,
`2` for `CRITICAL`, and `3` or greater to indicate `UNKNOWN` or `CUSTOM`.
**Sensu checks use the same specification as Nagios**, therefore, Nagios check
plugins may be used with Sensu.

## Create a standard check

Standard Sensu checks are used to determine the health of server resources,
services and applications. A standard check will query a resource for
information to determine its state. Once a standard check has determined the
resource state, it outputs a human readable message, and exits with the
appropriate exit status code to indicate its state/severity (`OK`, `WARNING`,
etc.).

### Monitor the cron service

The following instructions install the check dependencies and configure the
Sensu check definition in order to monitor the Cron service.

#### Install dependencies  {#check-cron-install-dependencies}

The `check-process.rb` script provided by the [Sensu Process Checks Plugin][2]
can reliably detect if a service such as Cron is running or not. The following
instructions will install the [Sensu Process Checks Plugin][2] (version
0.0.6) using Sensu's embedded Ruby, providing the `check-process.rb` script.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo sensu-install -p process-checks:0.0.6{{< /highlight >}}

#### Create the check definition for Cron

The following is an example Sensu check definition, a JSON configuration file
located at `/etc/sensu/conf.d/check_cron.json`. This check definition uses the
`check-process.rb` script ([installed above][3]) to determine if the Cron
service is running. The check is named `cron` and it runs `check-process.rb -p
cron` on Sensu clients with the `production` subscription, every `60` seconds
(interval).

_NOTE: Sensu services must be restarted in order to pick up configuration changes. Sensu Enterprise can be reloaded._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "subscribers": [
        "production"
      ],
      "interval": 60
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

For a full listing of the `check-process.rb` command line arguments, run
<kbd>/opt/sensu/embedded/bin/check-process.rb -h</kbd>.

Currently, the Cron check definition requires that check requests be sent to
Sensu clients with the `production` subscription. This is known as **pubsub
check**. Optionally, a check may use `standalone` mode, which allows clients to
schedule their own check executions. The following is an example of the Cron
check using `standalone` mode (`true`). The Cron check will now be executed
every `60` seconds on each Sensu client with the check definition. A Sensu check
definition with `"standalone": true` does not need to specify `subscribers`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 60
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

By default, Sensu checks use the `default` Sensu event handler for events they
create. To specify a different Sensu event handler for a check, use the
`handler` attribute. The `debug` event handler used in this example will log the
Sensu event data to the Sensu server (or Sensu Enterprise) log.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 60,
      "handler": "debug"
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

### Using multiple handlers

To specify multiple Sensu event handlers, use the `handlers` attribute (plural).

_NOTE: if both `handler` and `handlers` (plural) check definition attributes are
used, `handlers` will take precedence._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 60,
      "handlers": ["default", "debug"]
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

## Create a metric collection check

Metric collection checks are used to collect measurements from server resources,
services, and applications. Metric collection checks can output metric data in a
variety of metric formats:

- [Graphite plaintext][4]
- [Nagios Performance Data][5]
- [OpenTSDB][6]
- [Metrics 2.0 wire format][7]

### Measuring CPU utilization

#### Install dependencies {#cpu-metrics-install-dependencies}

The `metrics-cpu.rb` script provided by the [Sensu CPU Checks Plugin][8]
collects and outputs CPU metrics in the Graphite plaintext format. The following
instructions will install the [Sensu CPU Checks Plugin][8] (version 0.0.3) using
Sensu's embedded Ruby, providing the `metrics-cpu.rb` script.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo sensu-install -p cpu-checks:0.0.3{{< /highlight >}}

#### Create the check definition for CPU metrics

The following is an example Sensu check definition, a JSON configuration file
located at `/etc/sensu/conf.d/cpu_metrics.json`. This check definition uses the
`metrics-cpu.rb` script ([installed above][9]) to collect CPU metrics and output
them in the Graphite plaintext format.

By default, Sensu checks with an exit status code of `0` (for `OK`) do not
create events unless they indicate a change in state from a non-zero status to a
zero status (i.e. resulting in a `resolve` action; see: [Sensu Events][10]).
Metric collection checks will output metric data regardless of the check exit
status code, however, they usually exit `0`. To ensure events are always created
for a metric collection check, the check `type` of `metric` is used.

The check is named `cpu_metrics`, and it runs `metrics-cpu.rb` on Sensu clients
with the `production` subscription, every `10` seconds (interval). The `debug`
handler is used to log the graphite plaintext CPU metrics to the Sensu server
(or Sensu Enterprise) log.

_NOTE: Sensu services must be restarted in order to pick up configuration
changes. Sensu Enterprise can be reloaded._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cpu_metrics": {
      "type": "metric",
      "command": "metrics-cpu.rb",
      "subscribers": [
        "production"
      ],
      "interval": 10,
      "handler": "debug"
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

For a full listing of the `metrics-cpu.rb` command line arguments, run
<kbd>/opt/sensu/embedded/bin/metrics-cpu.rb -h</kbd>.

## Create a metric analysis check

A metric analysis check analyzes metric data which may or may not have been
collected by a [metrics collection check][11]. By querying external metric
stores (e.g. Graphite) to perform data evaluations, metric analysis checks allow
you to perform powerful analytics based on trends in metric data rather than a
single data point. For example, where monitoring and alerting on a single CPU
utilization data point can result in false positive events based on momentary
spikes, monitoring and alerting on CPU utilization data over a specified period
of time will improve alerting accuracy.

Because metric analysis checks require interaction with an external metric store, providing a functional example is outside of the scope of this guide. However, assuming the existence of a Graphite installation that is populated with metric data, the following example checks could be used.

_NOTE: If you've not configured a Graphite instance for these example checks but would like to, you can head over to [Graphite's quick start guides][sl1] and get a Graphite Vagrant box spun up fairly quickly, and continue with the examples below._

The following check uses the `check-graphite-data.rb` script, provided by the
[Sensu Graphite Plugin][12], to query the Graphite API at `localhost:9001`. The
check queries Graphite for a calculated moving average (using the last 10 data
points) of the load balancer session count. The session count moving average is
compared with the provided alert thresholds. A Sensu client running on the
Graphite server would be responsible for scheduling and executing this check
(`standalone` mode).

_NOTE: Sensu services must be restarted in order to pick up configuration
changes. Sensu Enterprise can be reloaded._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "session_count": {
      "command": "check-graphite-data.rb -s localhost:9001 -t 'movingAverage(lb1.assets_backend.session_current,10)' -w 100 -c 200",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 30
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

The following check uses the `check-graphite-data.rb` script, provided by the
[Sensu Graphite Plugin][12], to query the Graphite API at `localhost:9001` for
disk capacity metrics. The Graphite API query uses `highestCurrent()` to grab
only the highest disk capacity metric, to be compared with the provided alert
thresholds. This check will trigger an event (alert) when one or more disks on
any machine are at the configured capacity threshold. In this example
configuration, the check is configured to **warn** at 85% capacity (`-w 85`),
and to raise a **critical** alert at 95% capacity (`-c 95`).

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "disk_capacity": {
      "command": "check-graphite-data.rb -s localhost:9001 -t 'highestCurrent(*.disk.*.capacity,1)' -w 85 -c 95 -a 120",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 30
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

The following instructions will install the [Sensu Graphite Plugin][12] (version
0.0.6) using Sensu’s embedded Ruby, providing the `check-graphite-data.rb`
script.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo sensu-install -p graphite:0.0.6{{< /highlight >}}

## Checking on Other Clients{#proxy-clients}

Sensu supports running checks where the results are considered to be for a **client** that isn't actually the one **executing** the check- regardless of whether that client is a **Sensu client** or simply a [**proxy client**][14]. There are a number of reasons for this use case, but fundamentally, Sensu handles it the same.

Checks are scheduled normally, but by specifying a [**Proxy Request**][13] in your check, clients that match certain definitions (their `client_attributes`) cause the check to run for each one. The attributes supplied must normally match *exactly* as stated- no variables or directives have any special meaning, but you can still use `eval` to perform more complicated filtering with Ruby on the available `value`, such as finding clients with particular subscriptions (given that we're dealing with arrays):

{{< highlight json >}}
  "proxy_requests"{
    "client_attributes": {
      "user_variable": "some_value",
      "subscriptions":
        "eval: value.include?('a_subscription')"
    }
  }{{< /highlight >}}

[1]:  ../../reference/checks
[2]:  https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-process-checks
[3]:  #check-cron-install-dependencies
[4]:  http://graphite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/feeding-carbon.html#the-plaintext-protocol
[5]:  http://nagios.sourceforge.net/docs/3_0/perfdata.html
[6]:  http://opentsdb.net/docs/build/html/user_guide/writing.html
[7]:  http://metrics20.org/spec/
[8]:  https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-cpu-checks
[9]:  #cpu-metrics-install-dependencies
[10]: ../../reference/events#what-are-sensu-events
[11]: #metric-collection-checks
[12]: https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-graphite
[13]: ../../reference/checks#proxy-requests-attributes
[14]: ../adding-a-client#proxy-clients

<!--Supplemental links-->
[sl1]: http://graphiteapp.org/quick-start-guides/

Commit message:

Fix broken links, clean up frontmatter (#518)
* add product frontmatter

* add description frontmatter

* spacing

* typos

* fix links

* typo

* remove special handling for uchiwa in product dropdown

* fix/remove mac links

* use linkTitle to shorten sidebar label

content/sensu-core/1.1/guides/intro-to-checks.md, after:

---
title: "Intro to Checks"
description: "Sensu checks allow you to monitor server resources, services, and application health, as well as collect & analyze metrics."
version: "1.1"
product: "Sensu Core"
weight: 3
next: ../intro-to-filters
previous: ../adding-a-client
menu:
  sensu-core-1.1:
    parent: guides
---

# An Introduction to Checks

The purpose of this guide is to help Sensu users create monitoring checks. At
the conclusion of this guide, you - the user - should have several Sensu checks
in place to monitor and measure machine resources, applications, and services.
Each Sensu monitoring check in this guide demonstrates one or more check
definition features, for more information please refer to the [Sensu checks
reference documentation][1].

## Objectives

What will be covered in this guide:

- Creation of **standard** checks (functional tests)
- Creation of **metric collection** checks (server resources, etc)
- Creation of **metric analysis** checks (querying time series data, etc)

## What are Sensu checks? {#what-are-sensu-checks}

Sensu checks allow you to monitor server resources, services, and application
health, as well as collect & analyze metrics; they are executed on servers
running the Sensu client. Checks are essentially commands (or scripts) that
output data to `STDOUT` or `STDERR` and produce an exit status code to indicate
a state. The common exit status codes used are `0` for `OK`, `1` for `WARNING`,
`2` for `CRITICAL`, and `3` or greater to indicate `UNKNOWN` or `CUSTOM`.
**Sensu checks use the same specification as Nagios**, therefore, Nagios check
plugins may be used with Sensu.

## Create a standard check

Standard Sensu checks are used to determine the health of server resources,
services and applications. A standard check will query a resource for
information to determine its state. Once a standard check has determined the
resource state, it outputs a human readable message, and exits with the
appropriate exit status code to indicate its state/severity (`OK`, `WARNING`,
etc.).

### Monitor the cron service

The following instructions install the check dependencies and configure the
Sensu check definition in order to monitor the Cron service.

#### Install dependencies  {#check-cron-install-dependencies}

The `check-process.rb` script provided by the [Sensu Process Checks Plugin][2]
can reliably detect if a service such as Cron is running or not. The following
instructions will install the [Sensu Process Checks Plugin][2] (version
0.0.6) using Sensu's embedded Ruby, providing the `check-process.rb` script.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo sensu-install -p process-checks:0.0.6{{< /highlight >}}

#### Create the check definition for Cron

The following is an example Sensu check definition, a JSON configuration file
located at `/etc/sensu/conf.d/check_cron.json`. This check definition uses the
`check-process.rb` script ([installed above][3]) to determine if the Cron
service is running. The check is named `cron` and it runs `check-process.rb -p
cron` on Sensu clients with the `production` subscription, every `60` seconds
(interval).

_NOTE: Sensu services must be restarted in order to pick up configuration changes. Sensu Enterprise can be reloaded._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "subscribers": [
        "production"
      ],
      "interval": 60
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

For a full listing of the `check-process.rb` command line arguments, run
<kbd>/opt/sensu/embedded/bin/check-process.rb -h</kbd>.

Currently, the Cron check definition requires that check requests be sent to
Sensu clients with the `production` subscription. This is known as **pubsub
check**. Optionally, a check may use `standalone` mode, which allows clients to
schedule their own check executions. The following is an example of the Cron
check using `standalone` mode (`true`). The Cron check will now be executed
every `60` seconds on each Sensu client with the check definition. A Sensu check
definition with `"standalone": true` does not need to specify `subscribers`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 60
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

By default, Sensu checks use the `default` Sensu event handler for events they
create. To specify a different Sensu event handler for a check, use the
`handler` attribute. The `debug` event handler used in this example will log the
Sensu event data to the Sensu server (or Sensu Enterprise) log.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 60,
      "handler": "debug"
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

### Using multiple handlers

To specify multiple Sensu event handlers, use the `handlers` attribute (plural).

_NOTE: if both `handler` and `handlers` (plural) check definition attributes are
used, `handlers` will take precedence._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cron": {
      "command": "check-process.rb -p cron",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 60,
      "handlers": ["default", "debug"]
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

## Create a metric collection check

Metric collection checks are used to collect measurements from server resources,
services, and applications. Metric collection checks can output metric data in a
variety of metric formats:

- [Graphite plaintext][4]
- [Nagios Performance Data][5]
- [OpenTSDB][6]
- [Metrics 2.0 wire format][7]

### Measuring CPU utilization

#### Install dependencies {#cpu-metrics-install-dependencies}

The `metrics-cpu.rb` script provided by the [Sensu CPU Checks Plugin][8]
collects and outputs CPU metrics in the Graphite plaintext format. The following
instructions will install the [Sensu CPU Checks Plugin][8] (version 0.0.3) using
Sensu's embedded Ruby, providing the `metrics-cpu.rb` script.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo sensu-install -p cpu-checks:0.0.3{{< /highlight >}}

#### Create the check definition for CPU metrics

The following is an example Sensu check definition, a JSON configuration file
located at `/etc/sensu/conf.d/cpu_metrics.json`. This check definition uses the
`metrics-cpu.rb` script ([installed above][9]) to collect CPU metrics and output
them in the Graphite plaintext format.

By default, Sensu checks with an exit status code of `0` (for `OK`) do not
create events unless they indicate a change in state from a non-zero status to a
zero status (i.e. resulting in a `resolve` action; see: [Sensu Events][10]).
Metric collection checks will output metric data regardless of the check exit
status code, however, they usually exit `0`. To ensure events are always created
for a metric collection check, the check `type` of `metric` is used.

The check is named `cpu_metrics`, and it runs `metrics-cpu.rb` on Sensu clients
with the `production` subscription, every `10` seconds (interval). The `debug`
handler is used to log the graphite plaintext CPU metrics to the Sensu server
(or Sensu Enterprise) log.

_NOTE: Sensu services must be restarted in order to pick up configuration
changes. Sensu Enterprise can be reloaded._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "cpu_metrics": {
      "type": "metric",
      "command": "metrics-cpu.rb",
      "subscribers": [
        "production"
      ],
      "interval": 10,
      "handler": "debug"
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

For a full listing of the `metrics-cpu.rb` command line arguments, run
<kbd>/opt/sensu/embedded/bin/metrics-cpu.rb -h</kbd>.

## Create a metric analysis check

A metric analysis check analyzes metric data which may or may not have been
collected by a [metrics collection check][11]. By querying external metric
stores (e.g. Graphite) to perform data evaluations, metric analysis checks allow
you to perform powerful analytics based on trends in metric data rather than a
single data point. For example, where monitoring and alerting on a single CPU
utilization data point can result in false positive events based on momentary
spikes, monitoring and alerting on CPU utilization data over a specified period
of time will improve alerting accuracy.

Because metric analysis checks require interaction with an external metric store, providing a functional example is outside of the scope of this guide. However, assuming the existence of a Graphite installation that is populated with metric data, the following example checks could be used.

_NOTE: If you've not configured a Graphite instance for these example checks but would like to, you can head over to [Graphite's quick start guides][sl1] and get a Graphite Vagrant box spun up fairly quickly, and continue with the examples below._

The following check uses the `check-graphite-data.rb` script, provided by the
[Sensu Graphite Plugin][12], to query the Graphite API at `localhost:9001`. The
check queries Graphite for a calculated moving average (using the last 10 data
points) of the load balancer session count. The session count moving average is
compared with the provided alert thresholds. A Sensu client running on the
Graphite server would be responsible for scheduling and executing this check
(`standalone` mode).

_NOTE: Sensu services must be restarted in order to pick up configuration
changes. Sensu Enterprise can be reloaded._

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "session_count": {
      "command": "check-graphite-data.rb -s localhost:9001 -t 'movingAverage(lb1.assets_backend.session_current,10)' -w 100 -c 200",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 30
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

The following check uses the `check-graphite-data.rb` script, provided by the
[Sensu Graphite Plugin][12], to query the Graphite API at `localhost:9001` for
disk capacity metrics. The Graphite API query uses `highestCurrent()` to grab
only the highest disk capacity metric, to be compared with the provided alert
thresholds. This check will trigger an event (alert) when one or more disks on
any machine are at the configured capacity threshold. In this example
configuration, the check is configured to **warn** at 85% capacity (`-w 85`),
and to raise a **critical** alert at 95% capacity (`-c 95`).

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "checks": {
    "disk_capacity": {
      "command": "check-graphite-data.rb -s localhost:9001 -t 'highestCurrent(*.disk.*.capacity,1)' -w 85 -c 95 -a 120",
      "standalone": true,
      "interval": 30
    }
  }
}{{< /highlight >}}

The following instructions will install the [Sensu Graphite Plugin][12] (version
0.0.6) using Sensu’s embedded Ruby, providing the `check-graphite-data.rb`
script.

{{< highlight shell >}}
sudo sensu-install -p graphite:0.0.6{{< /highlight >}}

## Checking on Other Clients{#proxy-clients}

Sensu supports running checks where the results are considered to be for a **client** that isn't actually the one **executing** the check- regardless of whether that client is a **Sensu client** or simply a [**proxy client**][14]. There are a number of reasons for this use case, but fundamentally, Sensu handles it the same.

Checks are scheduled normally, but by specifying a [**Proxy Request**][13] in your check, clients that match certain definitions (their `client_attributes`) cause the check to run for each one. The attributes supplied must normally match *exactly* as stated- no variables or directives have any special meaning, but you can still use `eval` to perform more complicated filtering with Ruby on the available `value`, such as finding clients with particular subscriptions (given that we're dealing with arrays):

{{< highlight json >}}
  "proxy_requests"{
    "client_attributes": {
      "user_variable": "some_value",
      "subscriptions":
        "eval: value.include?('a_subscription')"
    }
  }{{< /highlight >}}

[1]:  ../../reference/checks
[2]:  https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-process-checks
[3]:  #check-cron-install-dependencies
[4]:  http://graphite.readthedocs.io/en/latest/feeding-carbon.html#the-plaintext-protocol
[5]:  http://nagios.sourceforge.net/docs/3_0/perfdata.html
[6]:  http://opentsdb.net/docs/build/html/user_guide/writing.html
[7]:  http://metrics20.org/spec/
[8]:  https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-cpu-checks
[9]:  #cpu-metrics-install-dependencies
[10]: ../../reference/events#what-are-sensu-events
[11]: #metric-collection-checks
[12]: https://github.com/sensu-plugins/sensu-plugins-graphite
[13]: ../../reference/checks#proxy-requests-attributes
[14]: ../adding-a-client#proxy-clients

<!--Supplemental links-->
[sl1]: http://graphiteapp.org/quick-start-guides/
