content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.12/rbac/overview.md, before:

---
title: "Role Based Access Controls"
product: "Sensu Enterprise Dashboard"
version: "2.12"
description: "RBAC for Sensu Enterprise enables administrators to grant the correct level access to many different development and operations teams."
weight: 1
menu:
  sensu-enterprise-dashboard-2.12:
    parent: rbac
---
**ENTERPRISE: Role based access controls are available for [Sensu Enterprise][0]
users only.**

## Reference Documentation

- [What are Role Based Access Controls for Sensu Enterprise?](#what-are-role-based-access-controls)
  - [How does Sensu provide RBAC?](#how-does-sensu-provide-rbac)
  - [Supported RBAC drivers](#supported-rbac-drivers)
- [RBAC for the Sensu Enterprise Console API](#rbac-for-the-sensu-enterprise-console-api)
- [RBAC configuration](#rbac-configuration)
  - [Example RBAC definition](#example-rbac-definition)
  - [RBAC definition specification](#rbac-definition-specification)
    - [`DRIVER` attributes](#driver-attributes)
    - [`roles` attributes](#roles-attributes)
    - [`methods` attributes](#methods-attributes)

## What are Role Based Access Controls for Sensu Enterprise? {#what-are-role-based-access-controls}

Role-based access controls (RBAC) are a system for restricting access to
authorized users according to a role, or job function. RBAC for Sensu Enterprise
enables administrators to grant the correct level access to many different
development and operations teams, without requiring them to maintain yet another
user registry.

### How does Sensu provide RBAC?

The Sensu Enterprise Dashboard provides comprehensive and granular Role-Based
Access Controls (RBAC), with support for using a Lightweight Access Directory
Provider (LDAP), [GitHub.com][1], [GitHub Enterprise][2], and/or [GitLab][3] for
authentication. Roles can be defined to grant or restrict access to
monitoring data based on [datacenters][4], [Sensu subscriptions][5], and even
specific API endpoints (see the [Enterprise API reference documentation][6] for
more information).

### Supported RBAC drivers

Sensu Enterprise currently includes the following authentication drivers for
RBAC:

* [LDAP](../rbac-for-ldap)
* [GitHub](../rbac-for-github)
* [GitLab](../rbac-for-gitlab)
* [OIDC](../rbac-for-oidc)

## RBAC for the Sensu Enterprise Console API

As of Sensu Enterprise Dashboard version 1.12, RBAC configurations may be
applied to the [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14]. Access to the Sensu
Enterprise Console API is controlled by access tokens, which correspond to a
role definition (see the [`roles` specification `accessToken` attribute,
below][15]). RBAC for the Console API provides granular controls for restricting
access to specific API endpoints and HTTP methods (e.g. it is possible to allow
HTTP `GET` access to the [Clients API][16], but not `DELETE` access; see the
[`roles` specification `methods` attribute, below][15]).

### Providing an access token

In a header:

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ curl -H "Authorization: token TOKEN" https://localhost:3000/events
{{< /highlight >}}

As a parameter:

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ curl https://localhost:3000/events?token=TOKEN
{{< /highlight >}}

## RBAC configuration

### Example RBAC definition

The following is an example RBAC configuration using the [RBAC for LDAP][7]
authentication driver, a JSON configuration file located at
`/etc/sensu/dashboard.json`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "dashboard": {
    "host": "0.0.0.0",
    "port": 3000,
    "...": "",
    "ldap": {
      "server": "localhost",
      "port": 389,
      "basedn": "cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
      "binduser": "cn=binder,cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
      "bindpass": "secret",
      "roles": [
        {
          "name": "guests",
          "members": [
            "guests_group"
          ],
          "datacenters": [
            "us-west-1"
          ],
          "subscriptions": [
            "webserver"
          ],
          "readonly": true
        },
        {
          "name": "operators",
          "members": [
            "operators_group"
          ],
          "datacenters": [],
          "subscriptions": [],
          "readonly": false
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### RBAC definition specification

#### `DRIVER` attributes

Role based access controls for Sensu Enterprise are configured within the
`{ "dashboard": { "DRIVER": {} } }` configuration scope, where `DRIVER` is one
of the following:

- `ldap` (see [RBAC for LDAP][7])
- `github` (see [RBAC for GitHub][8])
- `gitlab` (see [RBAC for GitLab][9])
- `OIDC` (see [RBAC for OIDC][20])

#### `roles` attributes

Role attributes are defined within the corresponding [RBAC `DRIVER`][10]
[configuration scope][17]; e.g.: `{ "dashboard": { "DRIVER": { "roles": [] } }
}`. The `roles` attribute is always a JSON array (i.e. `"roles": []`),
containing JSON hashes of role definitions. The following role definition
specification is common across all RBAC drivers.

##### EXAMPLE {#roles-attributes-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "dashboard": {
    "...": "...",
    "ldap": {
      "...": "...",
      "roles": [
        {
          "name": "example_role",
          "members": ["example_group"],
          "datacenters": [],
          "subscriptions": ["example_application"],
          "readonly": false
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

##### ATTRIBUTES {#roles-attributes-specification}

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The name of the role.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "operators"{{< /highlight >}}

members        | 
---------------|------
description    | An array of the LDAP groups, GitHub Teams, or GitLab Groups that should be included as members of the role.
required       | true
type           | Array
allowed values | Any LDAP group name, GitHub `organization/team` pair, or GitLab Group name. _NOTE: For LDAP group names, Sensu Enterprise supports the following LDAP group object classes: `group`, `groupOfNames`, `groupOfUniqueNames` and `posixGroup`._ _NOTE: A GitHub Team with a URL of [github.com/orgs/sensu/teams/docs][11] would be entered as `sensu/docs`._ _NOTE: A GitLab Group with a URL of [gitlab.com/groups/heavywater][12] would be entered as `heavywater`._
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"members": [
  "myorganization/devs",
  "myorganization/ops"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

datacenters  | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of the `datacenters` (i.e. matching a defined Sensu API endpoint `name` value) that members of the role should have access to. Provided values will be used to filter which `datacenters` members of the role will have access to. _NOTE: omitting this configuration attribute or providing an empty array will allow members of the role access to all configured `datacenters`._
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"datacenters": [
  "us-west-1",
  "us-west-2"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

subscriptions | 
--------------|------
description   | An array of the subscriptions that members of the role should have access to. Provided values will be used to filter which subscriptions members of the role will have access to. _NOTE: omitting this configuration attribute or providing an empty array will allow members of the role access to all subscriptions._
required      | false
type          | Array
example       | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": [
  "webserver"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

readonly     | 
-------------|------
description  | Used to restrict "write" access (i.e. preventing members of the role from being able to create stashes, silence checks, etc).
required     | false
type         | Boolean
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"readonly": true{{< /highlight >}}

accessToken    | 
---------------|------
description    | A unique token for [authenticating][19] against the [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] as a member of that role.
required       | false
type           | String
allowed values | any length string that only contains URL-friendly characters. _PRO TIP: we recommend using a random string generator for access tokens; e.g.:_ {{< highlight shell >}}openssl rand -base64 40 | tr -- '+=/' '-_~'{{< /highlight >}}
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"accessToken": "OrIXC7ezuq0AZKoRHhf~oIl-98dX5B23hf8KudfcqJt5eTeQjDDGDQ__"{{< /highlight >}}

fallback    | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to give an authenticated user the attributes defined in that role if that user is not found in any other defined dashboard role.
required       | false
type           | Boolean
default        | false
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}{
  "name": "readonly_fallback",
  "datacenters": [],
  "subscriptions": [],
  "fallback": true,
  "readonly": true
}{{< /highlight >}}

methods      | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`methods` definition scope][18], used to configure access to the [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14].
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "head": [
    "none"
  ],
  "get": [],
  "post": [
    "results",
    "stashes"
  ],
  "delete": [
    "stashes"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### `methods` attributes

Sensu Enterprise Console API access controls may be fine tuned using the
`{ "dashboard": { "DRIVER": { "roles": [ { "methods": {} } ] } } }`
[configuration scope][17].

##### EXAMPLE {#methods-attributes-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "dashboard": {
    "...": "...",
    "ldap": {
      "...": "...",
      "roles": [
        {
          "name": "example_role",
          "members": ["example_group"],
          "datacenters": [],
          "subscriptions": ["example_application"],
          "accessToken": "j3sJ8itFn9d9ooFYdN9erW3ZN6i8C9V3",
          "methods": {
            "get": [],
            "post": [
              "stashes"
            ],
            "delete": [
              "clients",
              "events"
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

##### SPECIFICATION {#methods-attributes-specification}

get            | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `GET` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `aggregates`, `checks`, `clients`, `datacenters`, `events`, `stashes`, `subscriptions`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "get": [
    "clients",
    "checks",
    "events"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

post           | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `POST` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `results`, `stashes`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "post": [
    "results"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

delete         | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `DELETE` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `aggregates`, `clients`, `events`, `results`, `stashes`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "delete": [
    "clients",
    "events"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

head           | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `HEAD` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `aggregates`, `checks`, `clients`, `datacenters`, `events`, `stashes`, `subscriptions`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "head": [
    "clients",
    "checks",
    "events"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}


[?]:  #
[0]:  /sensu-enterprise
[1]:  https://github.com
[2]:  https://enterprise.github.com/home
[3]:  https://gitlab.com
[4]:  ../../#what-is-a-sensu-datacenter
[5]:  /sensu-core/latest/reference/clients#client-subscriptions
[6]:  /sensu-enterprise/latest/api
[7]:  ../rbac-for-ldap
[8]:  ../rbac-for-github
[9]:  ../rbac-for-gitlab
[10]: #driver-attributes
[11]: https://github.com/orgs/sensu/teams/docs
[12]: https://gitlab.com/groups/heavywater
[14]: ../../api/overview
[15]: #roles-attributes
[16]: ../../api/clients
[17]: /sensu-core/latest/reference/configuration#configuration-scopes
[18]: #methods-attributes
[19]: #providing-an-access-token
[20]:  ../rbac-for-oidc

Commit message:

Update note with subscription limitations in RBAC (#1421)
* add note about subscription limitations in RBAC

* Update content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.15/rbac/overview.md

Co-Authored-By: Cameron Johnston <cameron@rootdown.net>

* copy to all versions

content/sensu-enterprise-dashboard/2.12/rbac/overview.md, after:

---
title: "Role Based Access Controls"
product: "Sensu Enterprise Dashboard"
version: "2.12"
description: "RBAC for Sensu Enterprise enables administrators to grant the correct level access to many different development and operations teams."
weight: 1
menu:
  sensu-enterprise-dashboard-2.12:
    parent: rbac
---
**ENTERPRISE: Role based access controls are available for [Sensu Enterprise][0]
users only.**

## Reference Documentation

- [What are Role Based Access Controls for Sensu Enterprise?](#what-are-role-based-access-controls)
  - [How does Sensu provide RBAC?](#how-does-sensu-provide-rbac)
  - [Supported RBAC drivers](#supported-rbac-drivers)
- [RBAC for the Sensu Enterprise Console API](#rbac-for-the-sensu-enterprise-console-api)
- [RBAC configuration](#rbac-configuration)
  - [Example RBAC definition](#example-rbac-definition)
  - [RBAC definition specification](#rbac-definition-specification)
    - [`DRIVER` attributes](#driver-attributes)
    - [`roles` attributes](#roles-attributes)
    - [`methods` attributes](#methods-attributes)

## What are Role Based Access Controls for Sensu Enterprise? {#what-are-role-based-access-controls}

Role-based access controls (RBAC) are a system for restricting access to
authorized users according to a role, or job function. RBAC for Sensu Enterprise
enables administrators to grant the correct level access to many different
development and operations teams, without requiring them to maintain yet another
user registry.

### How does Sensu provide RBAC?

The Sensu Enterprise Dashboard provides comprehensive and granular Role-Based
Access Controls (RBAC), with support for using a Lightweight Access Directory
Provider (LDAP), [GitHub.com][1], [GitHub Enterprise][2], and/or [GitLab][3] for
authentication. Roles can be defined to grant or restrict access to
monitoring data based on [datacenters][4], [Sensu subscriptions][5], and even
specific API endpoints (see the [Enterprise API reference documentation][6] for
more information).

### Supported RBAC drivers

Sensu Enterprise currently includes the following authentication drivers for
RBAC:

* [LDAP](../rbac-for-ldap)
* [GitHub](../rbac-for-github)
* [GitLab](../rbac-for-gitlab)
* [OIDC](../rbac-for-oidc)

## RBAC for the Sensu Enterprise Console API

As of Sensu Enterprise Dashboard version 1.12, RBAC configurations may be
applied to the [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14]. Access to the Sensu
Enterprise Console API is controlled by access tokens, which correspond to a
role definition (see the [`roles` specification `accessToken` attribute,
below][15]). RBAC for the Console API provides granular controls for restricting
access to specific API endpoints and HTTP methods (e.g. it is possible to allow
HTTP `GET` access to the [Clients API][16], but not `DELETE` access; see the
[`roles` specification `methods` attribute, below][15]).

### Providing an access token

In a header:

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ curl -H "Authorization: token TOKEN" https://localhost:3000/events
{{< /highlight >}}

As a parameter:

{{< highlight shell >}}
$ curl https://localhost:3000/events?token=TOKEN
{{< /highlight >}}

## RBAC configuration

### Example RBAC definition

The following is an example RBAC configuration using the [RBAC for LDAP][7]
authentication driver, a JSON configuration file located at
`/etc/sensu/dashboard.json`.

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "dashboard": {
    "host": "0.0.0.0",
    "port": 3000,
    "...": "",
    "ldap": {
      "server": "localhost",
      "port": 389,
      "basedn": "cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
      "binduser": "cn=binder,cn=users,dc=domain,dc=tld",
      "bindpass": "secret",
      "roles": [
        {
          "name": "guests",
          "members": [
            "guests_group"
          ],
          "datacenters": [
            "us-west-1"
          ],
          "subscriptions": [
            "webserver"
          ],
          "readonly": true
        },
        {
          "name": "operators",
          "members": [
            "operators_group"
          ],
          "datacenters": [],
          "subscriptions": [],
          "readonly": false
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### RBAC definition specification

#### `DRIVER` attributes

Role based access controls for Sensu Enterprise are configured within the
`{ "dashboard": { "DRIVER": {} } }` configuration scope, where `DRIVER` is one
of the following:

- `ldap` (see [RBAC for LDAP][7])
- `github` (see [RBAC for GitHub][8])
- `gitlab` (see [RBAC for GitLab][9])
- `OIDC` (see [RBAC for OIDC][20])

#### `roles` attributes

Role attributes are defined within the corresponding [RBAC `DRIVER`][10]
[configuration scope][17]; e.g.: `{ "dashboard": { "DRIVER": { "roles": [] } }
}`. The `roles` attribute is always a JSON array (i.e. `"roles": []`),
containing JSON hashes of role definitions. The following role definition
specification is common across all RBAC drivers.

##### EXAMPLE {#roles-attributes-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "dashboard": {
    "...": "...",
    "ldap": {
      "...": "...",
      "roles": [
        {
          "name": "example_role",
          "members": ["example_group"],
          "datacenters": [],
          "subscriptions": ["example_application"],
          "readonly": false
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

##### ATTRIBUTES {#roles-attributes-specification}

name         | 
-------------|------
description  | The name of the role.
required     | true
type         | String
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"name": "operators"{{< /highlight >}}

members        | 
---------------|------
description    | An array of the LDAP groups, GitHub Teams, or GitLab Groups that should be included as members of the role.
required       | true
type           | Array
allowed values | Any LDAP group name, GitHub `organization/team` pair, or GitLab Group name. _NOTE: For LDAP group names, Sensu Enterprise supports the following LDAP group object classes: `group`, `groupOfNames`, `groupOfUniqueNames` and `posixGroup`._ _NOTE: A GitHub Team with a URL of [github.com/orgs/sensu/teams/docs][11] would be entered as `sensu/docs`._ _NOTE: A GitLab Group with a URL of [gitlab.com/groups/heavywater][12] would be entered as `heavywater`._
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"members": [
  "myorganization/devs",
  "myorganization/ops"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

datacenters  | 
-------------|------
description  | An array of the `datacenters` (i.e. matching a defined Sensu API endpoint `name` value) that members of the role should have access to. Provided values will be used to filter which `datacenters` members of the role will have access to. _NOTE: omitting this configuration attribute or providing an empty array will allow members of the role access to all configured `datacenters`._
required     | false
type         | Array
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"datacenters": [
  "us-west-1",
  "us-west-2"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

subscriptions | 
--------------|------
description   | An array of the subscriptions that members of the role should have access to. Provided values will be used to filter which subscriptions members of the role will have access to. Omitting this configuration attribute or providing an empty array will allow members of the role access to all subscriptions. _NOTE: Use of the `subscriptions` attribute as a selector for RBAC controls is subject to known limitations. Specifically, users may be able to create silencing entries for clients or subscriptions which their permissions as specified by `subscriptions` selector should have disallowed. Due to these limitations, use of `subscriptions` as an RBAC selector should be considered deprecated._
required      | false
type          | Array
example       | {{< highlight shell >}}"subscriptions": [
  "webserver"
]
{{< /highlight >}}

readonly     | 
-------------|------
description  | Used to restrict "write" access (i.e. preventing members of the role from being able to create stashes, silence checks, etc).
required     | false
type         | Boolean
default      | false
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"readonly": true{{< /highlight >}}

accessToken    | 
---------------|------
description    | A unique token for [authenticating][19] against the [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] as a member of that role.
required       | false
type           | String
allowed values | any length string that only contains URL-friendly characters. _PRO TIP: we recommend using a random string generator for access tokens; e.g.:_ {{< highlight shell >}}openssl rand -base64 40 | tr -- '+=/' '-_~'{{< /highlight >}}
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"accessToken": "OrIXC7ezuq0AZKoRHhf~oIl-98dX5B23hf8KudfcqJt5eTeQjDDGDQ__"{{< /highlight >}}

fallback    | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to give an authenticated user the attributes defined in that role if that user is not found in any other defined dashboard role.
required       | false
type           | Boolean
default        | false
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}{
  "name": "readonly_fallback",
  "datacenters": [],
  "subscriptions": [],
  "fallback": true,
  "readonly": true
}{{< /highlight >}}

methods      | 
-------------|------
description  | The [`methods` definition scope][18], used to configure access to the [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14].
required     | false
type         | Hash
example      | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "head": [
    "none"
  ],
  "get": [],
  "post": [
    "results",
    "stashes"
  ],
  "delete": [
    "stashes"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### `methods` attributes

Sensu Enterprise Console API access controls may be fine tuned using the
`{ "dashboard": { "DRIVER": { "roles": [ { "methods": {} } ] } } }`
[configuration scope][17].

##### EXAMPLE {#methods-attributes-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{
  "dashboard": {
    "...": "...",
    "ldap": {
      "...": "...",
      "roles": [
        {
          "name": "example_role",
          "members": ["example_group"],
          "datacenters": [],
          "subscriptions": ["example_application"],
          "accessToken": "j3sJ8itFn9d9ooFYdN9erW3ZN6i8C9V3",
          "methods": {
            "get": [],
            "post": [
              "stashes"
            ],
            "delete": [
              "clients",
              "events"
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

##### SPECIFICATION {#methods-attributes-specification}

get            | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `GET` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `aggregates`, `checks`, `clients`, `datacenters`, `events`, `stashes`, `subscriptions`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "get": [
    "clients",
    "checks",
    "events"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

post           | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `POST` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `results`, `stashes`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "post": [
    "results"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

delete         | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `DELETE` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `aggregates`, `clients`, `events`, `results`, `stashes`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "delete": [
    "clients",
    "events"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

head           | 
---------------|------
description    | Used to configure HTTP `HEAD` access to one or more [Sensu Enterprise Console API][14] endpoints.
required       | false
type           | Array of Strings
allowed values | `aggregates`, `checks`, `clients`, `datacenters`, `events`, `stashes`, `subscriptions`
default        | `[]` (an empty array, which is equivalent to "allow all")
example        | {{< highlight shell >}}"methods": {
  "head": [
    "clients",
    "checks",
    "events"
  ]
}
{{< /highlight >}}


[?]:  #
[0]:  /sensu-enterprise
[1]:  https://github.com
[2]:  https://enterprise.github.com/home
[3]:  https://gitlab.com
[4]:  ../../#what-is-a-sensu-datacenter
[5]:  /sensu-core/latest/reference/clients#client-subscriptions
[6]:  /sensu-enterprise/latest/api
[7]:  ../rbac-for-ldap
[8]:  ../rbac-for-github
[9]:  ../rbac-for-gitlab
[10]: #driver-attributes
[11]: https://github.com/orgs/sensu/teams/docs
[12]: https://gitlab.com/groups/heavywater
[14]: ../../api/overview
[15]: #roles-attributes
[16]: ../../api/clients
[17]: /sensu-core/latest/reference/configuration#configuration-scopes
[18]: #methods-attributes
[19]: #providing-an-access-token
[20]:  ../rbac-for-oidc
