content/sensu-go/5.11/getting-started/get-started.md, before:

---
title: "Get started with Sensu"
linkTitle: "Get Started with Sensu"
description: "Sensu is the industry leading solution for multi-cloud monitoring at scale. The Sensu monitoring event pipeline empowers businesses to automate their monitoring workflows and gain deep visibility into their multi-cloud environments. Get started now and feel the #monitoringlove."
version: "5.11"
weight: 1
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.11:
    parent: getting-started
---

### Learn Sensu in 15 minutes

Create your first monitoring event pipeline using a local development environment pre-installed with the essential Sensu stack.

- [Download the sandbox and learn Sensu Go][7]
- [See more sandbox lessons][1]
- [Join the community][8]

### Install Sensu Go (free tier)

Sensu Go is the flexible monitoring event pipeline, designed for container-based and multi-cloud infrastructures.
Get started with the free tier by installing an official Sensu distribution.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]
- [Discover Sensu assets][6]
- [Learn about license-activated features][12]

### Monitor at scale (licensed tier)

Sensu Inc. offers support packages for Sensu Go as well as license-activated features designed for monitoring at scale.

- [Learn about license-activated features][12]
- [Contact the sales team for a free trial][4]
- [Activate your Sensu license][5]

### Build from source (OSS tier)
Sensu Go's core is open source software, freely available under an MIT license.

- [Visit Sensu Go on GitHub][10]
- [Learn about OSS-tier features][12]
- [Build from source][11]

[1]: ../sandbox
[2]: ../../installation/install-sensu
[3]: https://sensu.io/products/enterprise
[4]: https://sensu.io/sales/
[5]: ../enterprise
[6]: https://bonsai.sensu.io
[7]: ../learn-sensu
[8]: https://sensu.io/community
[9]: ../../reference/license
[10]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go
[11]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#building
[12]: https://sensu.io/products

Commit message:

Add Katacoda tutorial (#1635)
* initial katacoda commit

* adjust height

* add description

* copy to 5.12

content/sensu-go/5.11/getting-started/get-started.md, after:

---
title: "Get started with Sensu"
linkTitle: "Get Started with Sensu"
description: "Sensu is the industry leading solution for multi-cloud monitoring at scale. The Sensu monitoring event pipeline empowers businesses to automate their monitoring workflows and gain deep visibility into their multi-cloud environments. Get started now and feel the #monitoringlove."
version: "5.11"
weight: 1
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.11:
    parent: getting-started
---

### Learn Sensu in 15 minutes

Get started with Sensu, and create your first monitoring event pipeline.

- [Get started in your browser with an interactive tutorial][13]
- [Download the sandbox][7]
- [Check out the live demo][1]

### Install Sensu Go (free tier)

Sensu Go is the flexible monitoring event pipeline, designed for container-based and multi-cloud infrastructures.
Get started with the free tier by installing an official Sensu distribution.

- [Install Sensu Go][2]
- [Discover Sensu assets][6]
- [Learn about license-activated features][12]

### Monitor at scale (licensed tier)

Sensu Inc. offers support packages for Sensu Go as well as license-activated features designed for monitoring at scale.

- [Learn about license-activated features][12]
- [Contact the sales team for a free trial][4]
- [Activate your Sensu license][5]

### Build from source (OSS tier)
Sensu Go's core is open source software, freely available under an MIT license.

- [Visit Sensu Go on GitHub][10]
- [Learn about OSS-tier features][12]
- [Build from source][11]

[1]: ../demo
[2]: ../../installation/install-sensu
[3]: https://sensu.io/products/enterprise
[4]: https://sensu.io/sales/
[5]: ../enterprise
[6]: https://bonsai.sensu.io
[7]: ../learn-sensu
[8]: https://sensu.io/community
[9]: ../../reference/license
[10]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go
[11]: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-go/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#building
[12]: https://sensu.io/products
[13]: ../tutorial
