content/sensu-go/5.12/api/assets.md, before:

---
title: "Assets API"
description: "The assets API provides HTTP access to asset data. Here’s a reference for the assets API in Sensu Go, including examples for returning lists of assets, creating assets, and more. Read on for the full reference."
version: "5.12"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.12:
    parent: api
---

- [The `/assets` API endpoint](#the-assets-api-endpoint)
	- [`/assets` (GET)](#assets-get)
	- [`/assets` (POST)](#assets-post)
- [The `/assets/:asset` API endpoint](#the-assetsasset-api-endpoint)
	- [`/assets/:asset` (GET)](#assetsasset-get)
  - [`/assets/:asset` (PUT)](#assetsasset-put)

## The `/assets` API endpoint

### `/assets` (GET)

The `/assets` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [asset][1] data.

#### EXAMPLE {#assets-get-example}

The following example demonstrates a request to the `/assets` API, resulting in
a JSON Array containing [asset definitions][1].

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets -H "Authorization: Bearer $SENSU_TOKEN"

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
[
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-slack-handler/releases/download/1.0.3/sensu-slack-handler_1.0.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "68720865127fbc7c2fe16ca4d7bbf2a187a2df703f4b4acae1c93e8a66556e9079e1270521999b5871473e6c851f51b34097c54fdb8d18eedb7064df9019adc8",
    "filters": {
      "entity.system.os": "linux",
      "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
    },
    "headers": null,
    "metadata": {
      "name": "sensu-slack-handler",
      "namespace": "default"
    }
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#assets-get-specification}

/assets (GET)  | 
---------------|------
description    | Returns the list of assets.
example url    | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets
pagination     | This endpoint supports pagination using the `limit` and `continue` query parameters. See the [API overview](../overview#pagination) for details.
response type  | Array
response codes | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output         | {{< highlight shell >}}
[
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-influxdb-handler/releases/download/3.1.2/sensu-influxdb-handler_3.1.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "612c6ff9928841090c4d23bf20aaf7558e4eed8977a848cf9e2899bb13a13e7540bac2b63e324f39d9b1257bb479676bc155b24e21bf93c722b812b0f15cb3bd",
    "filters": {
      "entity.system.os": "linux",
      "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
    },
    "headers": null,
    "metadata": {
      "name": "sensu-influxdb-handler",
      "namespace": "default"
    }
  },
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-slack-handler/releases/download/1.0.3/sensu-slack-handler_1.0.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "68720865127fbc7c2fe16ca4d7bbf2a187a2df703f4b4acae1c93e8a66556e9079e1270521999b5871473e6c851f51b34097c54fdb8d18eedb7064df9019adc8",
    "filters": null,
    "metadata": {
      "name": "sensu-slack-handler",
      "namespace": "default"
    }
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/assets` (POST)

/assets (POST) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create a Sensu asset.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "url": "https://asset-url.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": {
    "Authorization": "Bearer $TOKEN",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "client1, proxy1, proxy2"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "name": "my-secure-asset",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

## The `/assets/:asset` API endpoint {#the-assetsasset-api-endpoint}

### `/assets/:asset` (GET) {#assetsasset-get}

The `/assets/:asset` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [asset data][1] for specific `:asset` definitions, by asset `name`.

#### EXAMPLE {#assetsasset-get-example}

In the following example, querying the `/assets/:asset` API returns a JSON Map
containing the requested [`:asset` definition][1] (in this example: for the `:asset` named
`check_script`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/sensu-slack-handler -H "Authorization: Bearer $SENSU_TOKEN"

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
  "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-slack-handler/releases/download/1.0.3/sensu-slack-handler_1.0.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "68720865127fbc7c2fe16ca4d7bbf2a187a2df703f4b4acae1c93e8a66556e9079e1270521999b5871473e6c851f51b34097c54fdb8d18eedb7064df9019adc8",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": null,
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-slack-handler",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#assetsasset-get-specification}

/assets/:asset (GET) | 
---------------------|------
description          | Returns an asset.
example url          | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/my-secure-asset
response type        | Map
response codes       | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li> **Missing**: 404 (Not Found)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output               | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "url": "https://asset-url.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": {
    "Authorization": "Bearer $TOKEN",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "client1, proxy1, proxy2"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "name": "my-secure-asset",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/assets/:asset` (PUT) {#assetsasset-put}

#### API Specification {#assetsasset-put-specification}

/assets/:asset (PUT) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create or update a Sensu asset.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/my-secure-asset
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "url": "https://asset-url.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": {
    "Authorization": "Bearer $TOKEN",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "client1, proxy1, proxy2"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "name": "my-secure-asset",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 201 (Created)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

[1]: ../../reference/assets

Commit message:

Updating API reference to include DELETE (#1692)
* Updating API reference to include DELETE
* Removing example in favor of adding later

content/sensu-go/5.12/api/assets.md, after:

---
title: "Assets API"
description: "The assets API provides HTTP access to asset data. Here’s a reference for the assets API in Sensu Go, including examples for returning lists of assets, creating assets, and more. Read on for the full reference."
version: "5.12"
product: "Sensu Go"
menu:
  sensu-go-5.12:
    parent: api
---

- [The `/assets` API endpoint](#the-assets-api-endpoint)
	- [`/assets` (GET)](#assets-get)
	- [`/assets` (POST)](#assets-post)
- [The `/assets/:asset` API endpoint](#the-assetsasset-api-endpoint)
	- [`/assets/:asset` (GET)](#assetsasset-get)
  - [`/assets/:asset` (PUT)](#assetsasset-put)
  - [`/assets/:asset` (DELETE)](#assetasset-delete)


## The `/assets` API endpoint

### `/assets` (GET)

The `/assets` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [asset][1] data.

#### EXAMPLE {#assets-get-example}

The following example demonstrates a request to the `/assets` API, resulting in
a JSON Array containing [asset definitions][1].

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets -H "Authorization: Bearer $SENSU_TOKEN"

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
[
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-slack-handler/releases/download/1.0.3/sensu-slack-handler_1.0.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "68720865127fbc7c2fe16ca4d7bbf2a187a2df703f4b4acae1c93e8a66556e9079e1270521999b5871473e6c851f51b34097c54fdb8d18eedb7064df9019adc8",
    "filters": {
      "entity.system.os": "linux",
      "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
    },
    "headers": null,
    "metadata": {
      "name": "sensu-slack-handler",
      "namespace": "default"
    }
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#assets-get-specification}

/assets (GET)  | 
---------------|------
description    | Returns the list of assets.
example url    | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets
pagination     | This endpoint supports pagination using the `limit` and `continue` query parameters. See the [API overview](../overview#pagination) for details.
response type  | Array
response codes | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output         | {{< highlight shell >}}
[
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-influxdb-handler/releases/download/3.1.2/sensu-influxdb-handler_3.1.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "612c6ff9928841090c4d23bf20aaf7558e4eed8977a848cf9e2899bb13a13e7540bac2b63e324f39d9b1257bb479676bc155b24e21bf93c722b812b0f15cb3bd",
    "filters": {
      "entity.system.os": "linux",
      "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
    },
    "headers": null,
    "metadata": {
      "name": "sensu-influxdb-handler",
      "namespace": "default"
    }
  },
  {
    "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-slack-handler/releases/download/1.0.3/sensu-slack-handler_1.0.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
    "sha512": "68720865127fbc7c2fe16ca4d7bbf2a187a2df703f4b4acae1c93e8a66556e9079e1270521999b5871473e6c851f51b34097c54fdb8d18eedb7064df9019adc8",
    "filters": null,
    "metadata": {
      "name": "sensu-slack-handler",
      "namespace": "default"
    }
  }
]
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/assets` (POST)

/assets (POST) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create a Sensu asset.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "url": "https://asset-url.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": {
    "Authorization": "Bearer $TOKEN",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "client1, proxy1, proxy2"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "name": "my-secure-asset",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

## The `/assets/:asset` API endpoint {#the-assetsasset-api-endpoint}

### `/assets/:asset` (GET) {#assetsasset-get}

The `/assets/:asset` API endpoint provides HTTP GET access to [asset data][1] for specific `:asset` definitions, by asset `name`.

#### EXAMPLE {#assetsasset-get-example}

In the following example, querying the `/assets/:asset` API returns a JSON Map
containing the requested [`:asset` definition][1] (in this example: for the `:asset` named
`check_script`).

{{< highlight shell >}}
curl http://127.0.0.1:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/sensu-slack-handler -H "Authorization: Bearer $SENSU_TOKEN"

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
{
  "url": "https://github.com/sensu/sensu-slack-handler/releases/download/1.0.3/sensu-slack-handler_1.0.3_linux_amd64.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "68720865127fbc7c2fe16ca4d7bbf2a187a2df703f4b4acae1c93e8a66556e9079e1270521999b5871473e6c851f51b34097c54fdb8d18eedb7064df9019adc8",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": null,
  "metadata": {
    "name": "sensu-slack-handler",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### API Specification {#assetsasset-get-specification}

/assets/:asset (GET) | 
---------------------|------
description          | Returns an asset.
example url          | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/my-secure-asset
response type        | Map
response codes       | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li> **Missing**: 404 (Not Found)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>
output               | {{< highlight json >}}
{
  "url": "https://asset-url.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": {
    "Authorization": "Bearer $TOKEN",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "client1, proxy1, proxy2"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "name": "my-secure-asset",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}

### `/assets/:asset` (PUT) {#assetsasset-put}

#### API Specification {#assetsasset-put-specification}

/assets/:asset (PUT) | 
----------------|------
description     | Create or update a Sensu asset.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/my-secure-asset
payload         | {{< highlight shell >}}
{
  "url": "https://asset-url.tar.gz",
  "sha512": "xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx",
  "filters": {
    "entity.system.os": "linux",
    "entity.system.arch": "amd64"
  },
  "headers": {
    "Authorization": "Bearer $TOKEN",
    "X-Forwarded-For": "client1, proxy1, proxy2"
  },
  "metadata": {
    "name": "my-secure-asset",
    "namespace": "default"
  }
}
{{< /highlight >}}
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 201 (Created)</li><li>**Malformed**: 400 (Bad Request)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

### `/assets/:asset` (DELETE) {#assetsasset-delete}

The Sensu Go HTTP API provides the ability to delete an asset. Note that this does not remove the downloaded files from the asset cache, nor does it remove any references in other resources to the deleted asset. 

#### API Specification {#assetsasset-delete-specification}

/assets/:asset (DELETE) | 
----------------|------
description     | Deletes a Sensu asset.
example URL     | http://hostname:8080/api/core/v2/namespaces/default/assets/my-secure-asset
response codes  | <ul><li>**Success**: 200 (OK)</li><li>**Error**: 500 (Internal Server Error)</li></ul>

[1]: ../../reference/assets
